Fewer patients with unipolar mania responded to lithium prophylaxis than those with classical bipolar disorder, which appeared to be related to unipolar mania, rather than to a high manic predominance during the disease course. On the other hand, response to valproate prophylaxis was similar in the unipolar mania and classical bipolar disorder groups.
Our findings demonstrate socioeconomic inequalities in AMI incidence in migrant groups and suggest a convergence towards the Dutch general population. If the AMI incidence rates of the low socioeconomic group could be reduced to the level of the high socioeconomic group, this would represent a major public health improvement for all ethnic groups.
Delay in surgery for the evaluation of tumor response after neoadjuvant CRT is safe and does not negatively affect survival. These results support the hypothesis that shorter intervals may interrupt ongoing tumor necrosis.
The findings support the view that depression and dependency constitute different constructs.
Trials focusing on inspiratory muscle function should use the actual levels of PImax as a surrogate marker to represent prognostic information, rather than relative or absolute changes. This is the first study to investigate the prognostic information of the changes of PImax over time, regarding both short-term and long-term morbidity and mortality in patients with stable CHF.
Success on the ABR examination can be predicted by medical school success in preclinical courses, some clinical courses, and USMLE examination scores. Dean's letters, letters of recommendation, AOA selection during the senior year, and medical school prestige do not appear to predict future resident performance as reliably.
The serostatus of individuals migrating to low-prevalence countries as well as their sexual behaviour in the country of residence affect considerably the spread of HIV. Preventive measures should focus on targeted interventions, promoting safe sex practices, HIV testing, and entry to specialized HIV care among migrants.
(i) The Durban classification showed poor efficacy for JIA where<5 joints were involved at onset, with more than half the cases being "unclassifiable". (ii) The most common reason was that appropriate family history was not available despite being sought by the clinician. (iii) A proposed hierarchical system, an unofficial modification of the Durban classification, showed good efficacy, with only one of 50 cases being "unclassifiable."
In this sample, the number of hypothyroid symptoms reported was directly related to the level of TSH. The association was stronger when more symptoms were reported. Symptoms that had changed in the past year were more powerful than symptoms reported present at the time of testing. This suggests that traditional symptoms are valuable when deciding which patients to test for hypothyroidism.
While Doppler ultrasound is a useful non-invasive test for the detection of prevalent VA stenosis, our results do not confirm that abnormal brachial Doppler flow parameters can predict short term development of VA stenosis.
Clinical trials should carefully consider the impact of exclusion criteria on the generalizability of their results and explain the rationale for their use. For SAD treatment trials to adequately inform clinical practice, the eligibility rate must be increased through a general relaxation of overly stringent eligibility criteria.
As a result, nickel patch-test positivity and the genes which we have studied do not seem to be markers for AI with/without asthma. However, there might be a relation between AI with/without asthma and the types of the HLA system. Further surveys are needed with other genes and possible markers.
The opioid receptors don't play an important role in the pathogenesis of the inflammatory response in acute pancreatitis. If opioids affect leukocytes inflammatory signaling, there are no major implications in the pathogenesis of acute pancreatitis.
The relationship between syndromes of depression and dementia might be temporal. The lack of an obvious dose-response relationship between baseline depressive syndromes and follow-up dementia syndromes suggests that the causal relationship between depression and dementia needs further investigation.
HCy inhibited NO-mediated cavernosal smooth muscle relaxation, an effect that was potentiated by copper and reversed by superoxide dismutase or catalase. It is therefore proposed that the effect of HCy on cavernosal smooth muscle relaxation is mediated by an interaction between NO and superoxide anions. Moreover, HCy may constitute a new risk factor for angiopathic ED.
The ankle brachial index obtained by using a pocket Doppler by an experienced RN is interchangeable with vascular laboratory testing for detection of lower extremity arterial disease (LEAD). The pocket Doppler-derived toe brachial index was not interchangeable with vascular laboratory testing for detection of LEAD.
Our results suggest that transmission of HCV genotype 2 in West Africa occurs through sexual intercourse. In specific locations and subpopulations, medical interventions may have amplified transmission parenterally.
The findings suggest that δ(13)C(EAA) values may provide another tool for estimating the contribution of terrestrial and marine sources to detrital foodwebs. Preliminary analyses of consumers indicate significant use of aquatic resources, consistent with other studies of mangrove foodwebs.
Acute otitis media and myringosclerosis were introduced in the animals. Conventional immunological techniques were tested on this delicate tissue. A new method for immunohistochemical staining was elaborated in which specimens were stained en bloc before decalcification and sectioning were performed. Expression of macrophages was demonstrated in the tympanic membrane.
Prior administration of erythromycin does not alter pharmacokinetics of sufentanil in the 9 h following sufentanil administration. Thus, there are no apparent clinical consequences of prior or concomitant erythromycin administration in patients receiving sufentanil for procedures of 9 h or less.
Disturbed sleep in pregnancy may be associated with preterm birth. Future studies should examine specific physiological factors that underlie this increased vulnerability.
Additional histopathological examination of USCBs of radiologically abnormal ALN does not improve the preoperative diagnosis of axillary nodal metastasis in primary breast cancer and may lead to unnecessary axillary clearance.
Dynamic pattern of violence, degree of violence non-linearity and optimal non-linearity correlated with several attitudinal/behavioural and clinical outcomes. Knowledge of violence dynamics may have applications when working with violent couples.
Exacerbations of genital herpes coinciding with MS relapses suggest a potential link between the development of NABs and inhibition of anti-viral action of endogenous IFNβ. This case highlights that NABs not only decreases exogenous IFNβ treatment efficacy, but may also interfere with anti-viral properties of endogenous IFNβ. Investigating patients who are treated with biological medication will allow us to better understand the biology and signalling pathways in humans.
The finding that a poor vitamin K status is associated with low bone mineral density in longstanding Crohn's disease may have implications for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis in this disorder.
Several opportunities for improving contact dermatitis education in residency programs were identified, including recruitment or development of more faculty experts in contact dermatitis, creation of rotations dedicated to contact dermatitis, and greater inclusion of contact dermatitis-focused journals in journal club conferences. As the principal interest group for contact dermatitis in the United States, the ACDS is the logical organization to spearhead improvement of contact dermatitis education in residency programs.
In contrast to older studies, the majority of probably benign assessments are now recommended for short-interval follow-up, but the probability of short-interval follow-up recommendations varies by patient and radiologist characteristics.
The results of this study supported the hypothesis that MS patients with MEFV mutation seem to have the susceptibility to develop a more progressive disease. Moreover, these data suggest that MEFV mutations may increase the risk of MS development.
Laparoscopic abdominoperineal resection confers definite health-related benefits the over open approach in terms of reduced septic complications and fewer requirements for blood transfusion. It should be considered the procedure of choice for patients with low rectal or anal canal tumour in whom sphincter excision proved inevitable.
Different routes of administering misoprostol greatly influence the effects achieved. Oral solution misoprostol produces the fastest and strongest uterotonic effect, with the most side effects.
For lesions biopsied by using a 14-gauge needle, there is a trend towards underestimation of the presence of invasive carcinoma when pathology reveals DCIS with possible invasion compared with pure DCIS. High-grade DCIS was significantly more likely to be underestimated.
The Anxiety Depression Distress Inventory-27 dimensions of low positive affect and somatic anxiety provided optimal detection of depression and panic disorder, respectively, as hypothesized, supporting discriminant validity.
The prompt recognition of sepsis and its severity is not satisfactory. This difference is probably due to the difficulty in the recognition of organ dysfunction, which hampers early identification of septic patients.
Our data demonstrate a modification in fetal behaviour that manifests itself during the last four weeks before birth and has the potential to reduce lung liquid volume.
Patients having emergent surgery after chemotherapy have more comorbidities and severe disease, which are associated with higher complication rates and mortality. Identifying modifiable parameters prior to surgery may improve postoperative outcomes.
There are discrepancies between the field displacements and field placement errors detected by weekly port films and daily electronic portal images. This study suggests that improved methods of treatment verification may be necessary in modern radiation therapy.
FNAB is a simple, rapid and effective modality for achieving confirmation of mycobacterial disease in paediatric TB suspects with a palpable peripheral lymph node mass.
The presence of iliac aneurysm rendered endoluminal AAA repair more complex but did not affect feasibility and long-term outcome of the procedure. In our experience internal iliac exclusion was never associated with significant morbidity. These data may be useful when considering endovascular repair in high-risk patients with challenging anatomy.
Our review indicated that umbilical cord prolapse continues to be associated with poor perinatal outcomes in some cases despite emergency delivery in a modern, high-risk obstetric unit. The asphyxiated neonate had a shorter-than-average time from diagnosis to delivery, suggesting that the time from diagnosis to delivery may not be the only critical determinant of neonatal outcome, particularly with frank cord prolapse. Occult cord prolapse was associated with less perinatal morbidity when compared to frank prolapse.
Participation in a formal surgical skills course significantly improved practical operative skills as assessed by the simulation. The benefits of the course were maintained to 6 months with residents who completed the training earlier continuing to demonstrate an advantage in skills. Such courses are a valuable training resource which directly impact resident performance.
F&V availability is associated with increased consumption. Research that elucidates the mechanisms between availability and intake, and tests policy-level interventions, is needed to advance increased availability as a public health procedure.
PWI in addition to PVI plus linear lesions was an efficient strategy without deterioration of LA pump function in patients who underwent RFCA for PeAF.
Only in patients with PSA levels of 4.1-10 ng/mL and density of less than 0.1 ng/mL per cc was the eight-core biopsy method an improvement on the sextant biopsy method in terms of prostate cancer detection rate. Accordingly, a number of cores greater than eight will be required to improve the cancer detection rates in patients with PSA levels of 4.1-10 ng/mL and PSA densities of more than 0.1 ng/mL per cc.
From a conceptual standpoint, the results of this study suggest that LCP and AL antisocial behavior differ in degree (quantitative difference) rather than in kind (qualitative difference). These results have potentially important implications for theory development as well as for clinical assessment, diagnosis, and intervention.
The scope of practice of reporting radiographers has increased since previous studies; however, radiographer reporting of chest and abdomen radiographs has failed to progress in line with demand. There remain opportunities to increase radiographer capacity to assist the management of reporting backlogs.
We found that cavus midfoot alignment was more prevalent among patients with Lisfranc injuries than among individuals with no foot injury or disorder. Although this does not suggest that cavus alignment causes or predisposes patients to this injury, we believe the finding is important because this provides a radiographic parameter that clinicians can use to raise their index of suspicion for a Lisfranc injury and aggressively pursue this diagnosis. Future studies would benefit from obtaining contralateral foot imaging at the time of injury in all patients with Lisfranc injury or prospectively following patients with foot imaging and recording the incidence of future foot injury.
A considerable percentage of breast cancers detected outside the organized screening programme were asymptomatic, with a prognostic profile comparable with screening-detected breast cancers in the NBCSP. Individual data regarding the detection method for all breast cancers are needed for a complete evaluation of the organized screening programme in Norway.
Our results suggest that the presence of histologically confirmed lymph node metastases is not an important prognostic factor in patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma.
Previous intracerebral hemorrhage may neither increase the risk of symptomatic hemorrhagic transformation nor alter major clinical outcomes in acute ischemic stroke patients receiving intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. This study suggests reconsideration of prior history of intracerebral hemorrhage as an exclusion criterion for intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator administration in acute ischemic stroke.
Treatment with partially hydrolyzed guar gum is as effective as lactulose treatment in relieving stool withholding and constipation-associated abdominal pain, and its use improves stool consistency. Lactulose seemed to have more side effects, including flatulence and sensation of bad taste.
This study showed that no significant sex-related differences were found, and HOMA-IR was associated with adiposity and pubertal stage suggesting that the higher values of HOMA-IR in girls than in boys could be due to their earlier pubertal development.
Resilience may confer some protection against the adverse effects of parental problem drinking among Korean adolescents, but these protective effects are small in magnitude. Results highlight the importance of further research on culture-specific dimensions of resilience among Korean Children of Alcoholics (COAs).
Using AED as an example, a higher level of reimbursement was associated with a higher refill adherence compared with full co-payment in Sweden.
The majority of junior doctors misdiagnosed significant trauma abnormalities on x ray. Senior doctors scored well, but were not infallible. This suggests that junior doctors are not safe to work on their own in A&E departments. There are implications for training, supervision, and staffing in A&E departments, as well as a need for fail-safe mechanisms to ensure adequate patient care and to improve risk management.
Patients who perceive a greater handicap as a result of dizziness demonstrate greater functional impairment than patients who perceive less handicap from dizziness.
The percentage of nondiagnostic FNA at our institution during this period (6%) was relatively low. However, the incidence of malignancy in these patients was significantly higher. Therefore, we recommend that patients with thyroid nodules and nondiagnostic FNAs undergo either repeat biopsy or diagnostic thyroidectomy.
The viscosity/elasticity ratio was higher in the aorta than in the pulmonary artery, and arterial wall buffering function was similar in both vessels. Systemic global buffering function was higher than pulmonary circuit buffering function. Elasticity depends on intravascular pressure, whereas viscosity is a marker of the degree of smooth muscle activation. Smooth muscle activation may benefit the cardiovascular system by maintaining local and global buffering functions.
Although prescribing has increased, many patients who may benefit from lipid lowering drugs either do not receive it or are undertreated, possibly because of lack of awareness of the relative potency of the different statins. Patients with angina and the elderly are less likely to receive treatment that may prevent a coronary event.
Children's hospitals vary widely in their policies regarding healthcare-worker immunity, and, in many cases, physicians may not be protected from nosocomial transmission of community infections.
Changing tenure under RTB did not, on average, impact psychological distress, suggesting that this status change did not change mental health.
Data elements in the rankings can be used to assess clinical and, to a lesser extent, educational quality, but the number of specialties and ranked institutions is too small to have a significant effect on widespread clinical or educational quality, unless ranked institutions serve as sites for the development, study, and dissemination of best practices.
NBI was as accurate as hWLE in differentiating diminutive colorectal polyps. Once a learning curve was reached, NBI achieved significantly higher accuracies with good interobserver agreement. Using a simplified classification, a didactic learning session and feedback on performance, diminutive colorectal polyps could be predicted with high accuracies with NBI.
The association between glucose and HbA1c is not the same in the two populations. The mechanism behind this difference is unknown, and studies on long-term consequences associated with HbA1c are needed.
This study suggests that pregnancy is associated with a premature deterioration in RV function in women with a systemic RV. These women are also more symptomatic, with a greater reduction in functional class compared with patients with a systemic RV who do not undergo pregnancy. This study will allow this cohort of women to be more accurately counseled as to the potential long-term risks of pregnancy.
The presence of midline LBP increases the probability of lumbar IDD and reduces the probability of symptomatic FJ and SIJ dysfunction. The presence of isolated paramidline LBP increases the probability of symptomatic FJ or SIJ but mildly reduces the likelihood of lumbar IDD.
Nutritional support of more than 18 days was associated with higher mortality. This finding persisted after adjustment for major risk factors, in agreement with the hypothesis that prolonged impossibility of oral alimentation is a marker of mortality in the intensive care unit setting.
Interval palpable breast lumps should be evaluated with targeted ultrasound. Mammography does not appear to add value beyond sonography performed by trained ultrasound technologists and should not be routinely performed.
Type of device used for podcast listening did not affect engagement but there was a trend toward greater weight loss among mobile users. Method of Twitter posting was associated with engagement and weight loss with mobile app users posting more to Twitter and losing more weight.
Only a third of cancer patients discussed the emotional impact of a cancer diagnosis with their healthcare professional. Age, race, and type of malignancy affect the likelihood of having these discussions.
Evaluating urinary-exosomes remains difficult, given the variability of exosomes in urine specimens. Nevertheless, this approach holds promise as a non-invasive source of multiple markers of malignancy that could provide clinically useful information.
The present study shows an independent prognostic impact of GS in biopsy samples classified according to the previous classification. The elimination of GS 2-4 by the ISUP 2005 results in a considerable loss of pretherapeutic prognostic information and therefore should be questioned in particular with regard to the increasing demand for active surveillance regimens.
In women with ND, CEMRI should be recommended when conventional imaging is negative. Unexplained ND could be considered an indication for CEMRI.
Specific T(EM) cells persist even in subjects treated for TB decades ago with modern anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy. Additional studies are needed to address the question of what drives the survival of T(EM) after adequate treatment: persistence of antigens or bacteria.
In this porcine model, RALI achieved similar functional outcomes as the open approach, but required longer procedural times. The number and complexity of surgical adhesions among the groups favoured the RALI cohort. This may be of clinical significance in the paediatric spina bifida population, who generally undergo multiple surgical procedures in their lifetime, with increased risk for development of adhesions and subsequent intestinal obstruction.
These data indicate that the T(H)1 and T(H)2 diseases can coexist, indicating a common environmental denominator behind the disease processes.
Commonly used walking tests may not be responsive to change following BoNT injection. The small ES suggest that BoNT has a modest effect on walking ability. Tests of walking performance may not be sufficient to capture all clinically relevant changes in walking ability following BoNT injection of the lower limb.
At 1-year follow-up, the performance of DFT testing does not seem to add any significant efficacy advantage in patients undergoing ICD implantation. Prospective randomized trials and long-term follow-up are warranted to clarify whether routine DFT testing may be safely abandoned leading to a revision of current guidelines.
Structured behavioural programmes aimed at lifestyle changes are feasible and effective in the "real world" setting of a diabetes unit for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
Pertinent findings on neonatal intensive care unit abdominal radiographs are rarely isolated to the pelvic regions.
Illness-specific illness schemas can be activated.
Our policy of admitting elderly hip fracture patients to the TS has resulted in a mortality and LOS among the lowest reported in the literature. This data suggest that there is a clear benefit to admitting elderly hip fractures to the TS.
These data suggest that the vocationally oriented multidisciplinary         preventive program was ineffective in improving work ability among participants with no severe medical         problems.
Helicobacter pylori rate among cases with globus sensation was similar to values in the general population. Helicobacter pylori eradication was found to decrease globus symptoms.
Functional rhinoplasty may have the potential to significantly improve the severity of obstructive sleep apnea for select patients with nasal obstruction. The nasal airflow improvement may modify pharyngeal aerodynamics. This is a fast and minimally invasive approach to consider in patients with obstructive sleep apnea and nasal obstruction, especially in patients with a body mass index less than 30.CLINICAL QUESTION/
The initiated reforms of the planning mechanism should progress and be further deepened. Especially today's quota-based allocation of practice licenses requires fundamental changes taking into account the relevant factors approximating local health care needs, re-assessing the adequate spatial planning level and expanding opportunities for introducing innovative and more flexible health care services models.
Positioning a tissue marker clip in the tumour centre seems to be reasonable after interventional biopsy of breast lesions of 1.0 cm or smaller and before neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
The association between the presence of C. pneumoniae DNA, both in bone tissue and PBMCs, and the increase in sRANKL/OPG ratio as well as in IL-1β and IL-6 levels observed in osteoporotic patients suggests C. pneumoniae infection as a new risk factor for osteoporosis.
These data suggest that cyst diameter is an independent factor that is associated with a high risk of biliary-cyst communication in clinically asymptomatic patients. Preoperative endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography should be performed in these asymptomatic patients to reduce the incidence of postoperative complications.
Oral liquid L-T₄ formulations could diminish the problem of L-T₄ malabsorption caused by coffee when using traditional tablet formulations.
The outcome of the whole rehabilitation resulted affected by the outcome of neuropsychological treatment in patients with USN, being a low score at Barrage test at the beginning of therapy a negative predictor of USN recovery.
The Selvester QRS score can reliably predict adequate ST segment resolution in patients with first acute ST segment elevation myocardial infarction receiving fibrinolytic therapy, with a high sensitivity and an acceptable specificity.
Experience of IPV is an important risk marker for the increased risk of chronic undernutrition among women of reproductive age in Bangladesh. Women experiencing IPV need help irrespective of the socioeconomic status they belong to. Targeted intervention at IPV among the poor may help improve nutritional status among women of reproductive age.
Internet-based treatment for headache is not affected by minimal therapist-initiated telephone contact.
The self-reported frequency of use of a range of health services in South Australia was broadly similar across ARIA categories. However, use of primary care services was higher among residents of highly accessible areas and public hospital use increased with increasing remoteness. There is no evidence for systematic rural disadvantage in terms of self-reported health service utilisation in this State.
Addressing organizational barriers should be an important component of strategies aimed at improving vaccine coverage. Public health authorities should focus on strategic management of the information and inter-organizational environment.
Distal biceps repair using the 2-incision technique with Ethibond should allow early active motion, but early active motion may not be possible with Fiberwire.
Current evaluation of positive lymph nodes may not accurately stage Dukes C colorectal cancer. The assessment of the LNR is a useful prognostic method in this heterogenous group of patients.
Anatomic ACL-R does not restore the native insertion site in its entirety. Percentage of reconstructed area serves as a rudimentary tool for evaluating the degree of native insertion site coverage using current individualized anatomic techniques and provides a starting point from which to evaluate the clinical significance of complete footprint restoration.
The bleed rate for OSA was unexpectedly higher than for recurrent tonsillitis. The primary indication for tonsillectomy affects secondary bleeding rate.
A pH probe-only study in patients without acid suppression may reflect both acid and volume (MII) reflux activities adequately and can substitute for MII-pH study. The observed excellent correlation between acid and MII refluxes with proximal migration may justify using pH probe-only studies for extra esophageal symptoms in patients without acid suppression.
Independent mood and anxiety disorders are prevalent in the alcohol-dependent population but not in clinical trial research samples. For alcohol dependence treatment trials to adequately inform clinical practice, the enrollment of patients with co-occurring mood or anxiety disorders must be increased, through trials tailored to this population, a general relaxation of overly stringent eligibility criteria, or both.
Medullary involvement and an infiltrative appearance are common findings on cross-sectional imaging and may suggest the diagnosis of collecting duct carcinoma. In large tumors, however, these features are frequently overshadowed by an exophytic or expansile component that cannot be distinguished from the more common cortical renal cell carcinoma.
At age 5-6 years, the inverse association between overweight and HRQOL is not being captured by either the utility-based CHU9D instrument nor the PedsQL instrument. This result has implications for how the cost-effectiveness of childhood obesity interventions is measured in children aged 5-6 years.
From the observations stated above, it is concluded that for women with GST-1 of 99 mg% or less, a GST-2 is not necessary. For those having GST-1 of 140 mg% or more, a GT TEST is absolutely necessary instead of repeating the screening test again in the third trimester. But it is in the intermediate group (i.e. with GST-1 value of 100 mg%-139 mg%) where the glucose screening test should be repeated in the early third trimester and GT TEST as and when necessary.
PITC led to a shift of HIV testing from VCT department to the OPD, a higher testing rate, but no additional HIV case finding.
There is potential to further prevent secondhand smoke exposure if such measures are expanded to indoor environments and integrated into broader policies. For policy-makers and advocates, the Japanese experience provides information on an additional tobacco control intervention as well as clues in the process of design, implementation and enforcement of such municipal measures. A more comprehensive and health-driven approach is required to effectively address the harm of secondhand smoke in Japan.
For preventive trials the inclusion of a placebo arm may reduce patients' willingness to participate.
A lower cardiac rupture incidence was observed among Group A patients in comparison to those of Group B. Thus our data, although not randomized, suggest the ability of primary PTCA in preventing post-AMI cardiac rupture.
Differences in the infant and adult number phenotypes between these two genetic disorders are discussed with reference to the processing styles used by each group and how these might impact on their developmental trajectories. Theoretically, we highlight our contention that one cannot infer the infant starting state from the adult end state. Rather, the development process itself must be taken into account.
In patients with hyperprolactinaemia due to a pituitary microprolactinoma, transsphenoidal surgery by an experienced pituitary surgeon should be considered as a potentially curative procedure. The cost of treatment over a 10 year period is similar in uncomplicated cases to long-term dopamine agonist therapy.
Our data supports the notion that anti-P antibody in the absence of anti-dsDNA during nephritis flares is a valuable marker to predict a better long-term renal outcome in lupus patients.
Our data show some evidence that interactive CME sessions that enhance participant activity and provide the opportunity to practice skills can effect change in professional practice and, on occasion, health care outcomes. Based on a small number of well-conducted trials, didactic sessions do not appear to be effective in changing physician performance.
Results strongly suggest that the primary information processing deficit in persons with MS is in speed of processing.
FDT and SWAP detect functional losses in cases of suspected glaucoma before glaucomatous losses detected by SAP.
The majority of breast cancer doctors are aware of and generally agree that guidelines pertaining to staging imaging for early breast cancer are reflective of evidence. Despite this, adherence is variable and factors such as local practice patterns and disease biology may play a role. Alternative strategies, beyond simply publishing recommendations, are therefore required if there is to be a sustained change in doctor behaviour.
Higher levels of GHb were associated with increased total and CHD mortality within the first six years independent of cardiac risk factors. Though further research is needed, this supports the hypothesis that early glycemic control may affect mortality outcomes.
Higher incidences of neonatal morbidity according to increased stage (or grade) of either acute histological chorioamnionitis or funisitis were due to an earlier gestational age at delivery.
Therapeutic exposures to ultrasound reduce short-term trigger point sensitivity. Ultrasound may be a useful clinical tool for the treatment and management of trigger points and myofascial pain syndromes.
The sway area and velocity show acceptable reliability, but a threshold of 25% should be used as a true variation between two different recording conditions, i.e. RP vs. ICP. Considering that most of the previous results on the relevant correlations between the masticatory system and body posture are based on spatial parameters, with the poorest repeatability, corresponding conclusions should be interpreted with caution.
Open femur fractures are associated with higher in-hospital complications related to incidence of MOF, associated intensive care unit stay, and hospital days when compared with closed femur fractures. For prevention of in-hospital complications, prompt hemorrhage control, surgical fracture fixation, cautious blood management, and triage to a Level I trauma center must be considered.
Sequential FNA and CNB improve the diagnostic accuracy of percutaneous CT-guided procedures in malignant lesions. There was only mild improvement, which was not statistically significant, for the diagnosis of benign specific lesions by the sequential procedures compared with the yield of CNB alone.
We believe our results were obtained using a more robust methodology. First off, we have built a better index that allows us to directly collect the variability of contextual variables without having to use arbitrary weights. Secondly, we have solved two major problems that are present in spatial ecological regressions, i.e. those that use spatial data and, consequently, perform a spatial adjustment in order to obtain consistent estimators.
Discography of porcine discs induces a pressure increase in adjacent discs. A similar pressure transfer during human clinical discography might elicit false-positive pain reactions.
The data from this study does not support data from a previous study showing ultra-low levels of ADAM12s in pregnancies affected by trisomy 21 prior to 10 weeks of gestation.
Our findings suggest that survival is better after resection of invasive MCN versus invasive IPMN when disease is localized within the pancreas, but this difference disappears in the presence of nodal metastasis or extrapancreatic extension.
Based on the current data, there seems to be no strong association between the results of IPD meta-analyses in cancer and publication.
Treatment with macrolides may protect against Campylobacter infection for a limited period of time, possibly due to the antibacterial effects of the drug or its metabolites. Fluoroquinolone treatment confers increased risk, probably due to a combination of competitive and selective effects, similar to what has been observed for nontyphoid Salmonella infection.
The study findings provide substantial evidence regarding the value of regular oral health care for people with HIV.
Biological control of elastomeric chains does not affect their mechanical properties.
The administration of the current system of health undertakings for tuberculosis for migrants needs to be strengthened to increase compliance.
Intravenous intrapulmonary administration is feasible and has no obvious adverse effects in a small pediatric patient group. Contrast echocardiography improves endocardial border delineation over harmonic imaging in pediatric stress echocardiography.
The prevalence of smokers among Portuguese school-aged adolescents varies within the several regions of the country, similar to what happens in the adult Portuguese population.
Vitrectomy and gas without the application of a scleral buckle may be used to safely treat inferior break retinal detachments. It may be used as an alternative to vitrectomy, gas, and buckle which has an increased risk of choroidal haemorrhage, requires a longer operating time, and has all the associated complications of a scleral buckle.
The functional volume could be measured in PET/CT when CT was performed with enhanced media. Caution should be taken when using the volume delineation method. Volume delineation methods using absolute threshold may artefactually increase the functional volume when enhanced CT is used for attenuation correction. The delineation volume using the relative or adaptative method should be preferred when contrast media are used for PET/CT.
Aneusomy 9 has a high sensitivity (84.61%) for the detection of bladder cancer. Patients with a negative cystoscopy but with aneusomy 9 should be kept under close clinical surveillance for potential disease recurrence. However, negative FISH results might not be a negative predictor for disease recurrence. Our results encourage further studies with a large number of patients and a long-term follow-up with concurrent FISH analysis.
Use of the tested approach, which avoids carrying out two GHSTs, would exclude most children currently diagnosed with GHD. Until better tools become available, we recommend identifying GHD in children by an integrated approach combining phenotype, auxological parameters, hormonal measurements and two separate GHSTs, with MRI and genetic tests to support the diagnosis.
Although there are racial and age disparities in breast cancer treatment, other factors such as education, income status, insurance plan, functional status, and comorbidity also play an important role.
PSI has a significant palliative benefit. Although the most widely accepted technique is the 2 parallel opposing anterior-posterior fields, single anterior field is also considered as a suitable option. Higher doses are needed for CLL patients compared to CML patients.
Bladder biopsy is not necessary in patients 3 months after receiving BCG who have a normal office cystoscopy or an erythematous bladder and normal urine cytology.
Percutaneous transfemoral EVR of AAA using large-bore introducer sheaths is safe. More than three quarters of the patients avoid femoral cutdown. Late complications are rare.
This case illustrates the deleterious impact on adhesions to the abdominal wall of transient ovariopexy at the end of surgery for endometriosis.
In patients with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, percent LDL-C reduction provides incremental prognostic value over statin dose and attained LDL-C levels. However, the attained LDL-C level does not provide additional prognostic value over statin dose and percent LDL-C reduction.
ATR astigmatism could be a desirable goal after cataract extraction in selected populations because the largest proportion of these cases achieved good unaided near vision with acceptable distant vision.
There was little evidence that differences in response rate or in consumers served biased comparison of satisfaction ratings between mental health providers. Bias might be greater in a setting with more heterogeneous consumers or providers. Returning consumers gave higher ratings than first-time visitors, and analyses of satisfaction ratings may need to account for this difference. Extremely high or low ratings should be interpreted cautiously, especially for providers with a small number of surveys.
In patients with preserved LVEFs, adding LAVi>31 mL/m2 to E/e' (when E/e' was in the gray zone, but not when E/e' was>13) significantly increased the accuracy of E/e' alone for the estimation of LV filling pressure. These data support the notion of using several, rather than any single, Doppler echocardiographic parameter for the accurate assessment of LV diastolic function.
The conventional diagnostic variables for appendicitis, as combined in the AIR score, is an efficient screening instrument for classifying patients as low-, indeterminate-, or high-risk for appendicitis. The addition of the new inflammatory variables did not improve diagnostic performance further.
Rectal surgery can be performed by senior residents with equal results to staff surgeons when there is direct supervision by a senior consultant and when the tumor is located in the mid-upper rectum (>7 cm from the anal verge). For lower tumors, a careful selection must be made as the operation may require a higher level of training.
We found variable test-retest reliability for ImPACT metrics. Visual motor speed and reaction time demonstrated greater reliability than verbal and visual memory. Our current data support a multifaceted approach to concussion assessment using clinical examinations, symptom reports, cognitive testing, and balance assessment.
Adolescent male gamblers, particularly problem gamblers, were more likely than their nongambling peers to become fathers by the age of 20. Such a result shows that there is a subpopulation of males who are at high risk for adverse outcomes such as young parenthood and problem behaviors. Only through further studies could the needs of this subpopulation be better assessed so that appropriate assistance could be delivered to better the lives of such individuals.
TLE in the PP is a feasible and safe alternative to DP and is potentially associated with fewer complications. Additional randomized studies are required to discuss the long-term prognostic value of this procedure.
This study suggests that the Communication and Professionalism ACGME competencies can be taught to surgical resident learners through a carefully crafted curriculum. Furthermore, these newly learned competencies can affect surgical resident interactions with their patients positively.
We hypothesize that iliopsoas bursitis may, when associated with other pathological conditions, not be the only source of pain. It should, nevertheless, be considered for differential diagnosis purposes.
Targeted antibiotic prophylaxis may decrease the rate of POPs after lung resection and improve outcome.
Fixation of the AO B1.1 type fractures with cross cannulated screws restores the biomechanical behavior of the pubic symphysis, obtaining better stability than fixation with the 6-hole non-locked plate. To date, no comparative, biomechanical studies have been conducted with these two systems of osteosynthesis. This study demonstrates that cross-cannulated screws fixation of the pubic symphysis in AO B1.1 pelvic fractures should be considered as an alternative to the conventional plating system.
Early cholecystectomy in acute cholecystitis with biliary stones could be performed regardless of time with similar complication, mortality and conversion rates.
A brief infant sleep intervention did not reduce overweight/obesity at 6 years. Population-based primary care sleep services seem unlikely to reduce the early childhood obesity epidemic.
Patients treated with trimodality therapy found no benefit with PET-CR, likely because FDG-PET residual disease was resected. Definitive chemoradiotherapy patients achieving PET-CR had excellent outcomes equivalent to trimodality therapy despite poorer baseline characteristics. Patients who achieve a PET-CR may not benefit from added resection given their excellent outcomes without resection. These results should be validated in a prospective trial of FDG-PET-directed therapy for esophageal cancer.
There were reduced temporal NAA/Cr and NAA/Cho ratios, suggesting neuronal loss or damage, associated with past or present poor seizure control in the patients with temporal lobe epilepsy, but it does not exclude the possibility of a future complete seizure control (seizure free patients with temporal lobe epilepsy at the time of 1H-MRS). This study warrants further 1H-MRS investigation with a larger series of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy.
Serum CysC may be a good marker for the estimation of RRF in CAPD patients. The derived CysC formula may be used to reliably estimate RRF in CAPD patients without the need for collection of 24 h urine.
Our findings suggest that a greater number of LNs and a closer NVB dissection are achieved on the right compared with the left using the dVSS during RARP. This can be attributed to surgeon handedness, robotic instrument laterality, or assistant instrument laterality. Surgeon awareness of these potential differences is important for the preoperative planning before RARP.
The cure model indicated that statistical cure was possible in patients undergoing hepatic resection for ICC. The overall probability of cure was approximately 10% and varied based on several tumor-specific factors. Cancer 2015;121:3998-4006. © 2015 American Cancer Society.
Young African American women reporting a male sex partner had been intoxicated during sex were significantly more likely to have an STI. The nature of this phenomenon could be a consequence of women's selection of risky partners and lack of condom use possibly stemming from their intoxication or their partners' intoxication.
The significant intraindividual variability of 245 residues and the lack of their association with clinically confirmed HSR argue against their use as viral genetic markers to exclude patients at risk for HSR.
The findings demonstrate that a relatively short intervention in the use of mental imagery is an effective way to boost the story comprehension of children with specific language impairment.
The large B-cell infiltrates in granulomatous tissue and increased molecular signs of antibody maturation are indicative of direct involvement of B cells in local inflammatory processes in patients with sarcoidosis. Moreover, CD27(-)IgA(+) B cells could be a marker for treatment with TNF-α blockers. These findings of B cells as emerging key players provide a rationale for a systematic study on B-cell ablative therapy in patients with sarcoidosis.
Over one-half of patients did not collect their HIV results in person and thus did not receive any post-test discussion. The strongest predictor of return for HIV test results was having a first HIV test at the clinic. Current NSW Health policy is failing to achieve high levels of HIV post-test discussion. For many patients, giving results by telephone may be a more appropriate strategy to ensure HIV post-test discussion.
Sigmoidoscopy is not sufficient for evaluating inflammation in UC patients. In particular, colonoscopy is necessary for first-attack patients and patients who have a discrepancy between rectosigmoid observation and symptoms.
These results suggest that watching the video DA improved patient knowledge and reduced decisional uncertainty about their spinal stenosis treatment choice. The addition of telephone coaching helped some patients choose a treatment more quickly; 6-month decisional outcomes were similar for both groups.
The results provide preliminary support that metacognitive variables are associated with PTSS after ABI. Clinical implications within rehabilitative settings are discussed, as well as theoretical and research implications in the context of the study's limitations.
About half of the patients with stage 3 CKD progressed to stage 4 or 5, as assessed by eGFR, over 10 years. Degree of albuminuria, stage 3 subgroup and microscopic haematuria were important risk factors for progression of stage 3 CKD. It would be appropriate to divide the present stage 3 CKD into two subgroups.
Among individuals, who call for the EMS due to chest discomfort, the intensity and the localisation of the pain, as well as a history of ischemic heart disease, appeared to be the most strongly associated with outcome.
The common finding of fewer reported HFs in people of Japanese ancestry may be a consequence of reporting bias: JAs report fewer symptoms of many conditions compared with people from other ethnic groups. This is probably due to cultural conceptions of what is appropriate to report.
The occurrence of seizures in the immediate postoperative period is a strong predictor of later seizure recurrence. Sex and race/ethnicity do not appear to be predictors of long-term outcome following surgery for temporal lobe epilepsy.
Right HALDN is technically safe and feasible and results in convenient extension of right renal vessels to full length with no increased incidence of vascular thrombosis.
We propose RLS as an uncommon but early feature of HD in some patients, and suggest adding HD to the already long list of RLS secondary to neurodegenerative conditions.
LAs are a challenge to identify. This study demonstrates that the MMAS-8 scale is a valid instrument for assessing medication adherence in IBD. This is the first adherence scale to be validated in IBD.
LAA is been shown to be a good static measure for dynamic foot function and can reliably be implemented in a normal clinical environment to evaluate and assess the efficacy of the prescribed foot orthoses.
Serum albumin determination was shown to be a test with low sensitivity and specificity for evaluating malnutrition in hemodialysis patients. The values correlated weakly and showed graphic disagreement with anthropometric parameters. Therefore, methods that measure percentage of body fat and muscle mass should be used together or instead of serum albumin level for assessing the nutrition status of hemodialysis patients.
Bile acids in reflux material accumulate in the laryngeal tissue in laryngeal carcinoma patients; therefore, bile acids should be considered a carcinogenic factor in the etiology of laryngeal carcinoma because of their mutagenicity due to DNA breaking, as they cause chronic inflammation due to intracellular accumulation.
In patients with aortic stenosis, disease activity appears to be determined by local calcific processes within the valve that are distinct from atherosclerosis and skeletal bone metabolism.
Explicit guidelines do improve clinical practice, when introduced and monitored in the context of rigorous evaluations. However, the size of improvement could vary.
Patients with advanced cancer view the name supportive care more favorably than palliative care. Future efforts to integrate principles of palliative medicine into oncology may require changing impressions of palliative care or substituting the term supportive care.
Most resident data systems in use do not promote or require standardization of data collection; therefore comparisons between programs would be difficult. The ideal system would be flexible, require standardization of data collection, enable direct transfer to Residency Review Committee forms, be translatable to any residency program, and allow meaningful intraprogram and interprogram comparisons.
MVPCI is uncommonly performed during index hospitalization in hemodynamically stable STEMI patients, likely reflecting widespread adherence to prior guidelines. Based on observational data, there does not appear to be early harm associated with MVPCI on the index admission in hemodynamically stable STEMI patients. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
These results suggest that satisfaction with pain management can be measured reliably when residents are able to report their pain, but further research is needed before satisfaction with pain management can be incorporated into routine assessments in nursing homes.
We show for the first time higher percentages of IL-17A and IL-17A/IL-17F double-producing CCR6⁺ memory T-helper cells in IFN⁺ SLE patients, supporting the hypothesis that IFN type I co-acts with Th17 cytokines in SLE pathogenesis.
Cardiac troponin may prove to be valuable in evaluating myocardial damage in birth asphyxia. However, the degree of prematurity may complicate the assessment.
We found that beneficial aspects of social relationships in relation to QoL were, in order of importance: avoiding negative aspects of close relationships, having confiding support, having a wide network of friends and having a partner. These associations were not modified by chronic disease. Thus, despite inevitable physical deterioration, we may be able to enhance a satisfying late life by optimizing our social relationships.
We found that measurement of P4 level at early follicular phase was associated with significantly lower pre-trigger levels. However, this did not translate into a difference in CPR between the monitored and unmonitored groups. We have confirmed that elevation in pre-trigger P4 level is associated with halving of the CPR, indicating that the most important P4 measurements are those in the late follicular/pre-trigger phase.
Two randomized clinical trials are scheduled for completion within the next year, and they should offer answers about mechanisms of myopia control. Treatments for myopia are moving beyond questions of safety and efficacy and on to reductions of complications and refinement of vision to produce super vision. At least one eye drop, pirenzepine, is being investigated for myopia control and may show promise for prevention of myopia in the future.
Physician's beliefs and medical education and personal health behavior are of importance in determining patient vaccination. An increase in population immunization rates may possibly be achieved by programs directed at enhancing physician knowledge and self immunization.
Obese BMI is associated with highly elevated CRP levels in patients with COPD. These findings are suggestive for an adipocyte-induced systemic inflammation in COPD.
Impotent/ED patients have higher chances of recovering full continence after NS-RP. NS should be planned independently of preoperative potencystatus whenever technically and oncologically feasible. Age and lower urinary symptoms are not restrictions. Current data should be considered in preoperative patient counselling.
In the relatively short follow-up period after SLNB, patients for whom SLNB had been performed did not have - on the whole - a prognostic advantage over patients who were subject only to close follow-up monitoring. Patients for whom subclinical lymph node metastases had been removed as the result of a positive SLNB did not have a better prognosis than patients without SLNB who had developed lymph node metastases within the follow-up period [corrected]
Patients cared for in IMGs generally received higher-quality primary care than those cared for in IPAs. Having an EMR and implementation of quality improvement strategies did not explain the differences in quality. These findings suggest that physician group type influences health care quality.
The rate of respiratory distress syndrome after delivery at 34 weeks is significantly higher than at either 35 or 36 weeks' gestation in our population.
Nigerian home video is a popular electronic media in Nigeria and scenes depicting mental illness are not uncommon. The industry could be harnessed for promoting mental health literacy.
Although all elements of triplet diagnostics produces were more uncertain for malignancy in case of lobular carcinomas than ductal one, combining the result of the three radiological modalities and cytology increase the preoperative detection rate of lobular carcinoma.
Our results suggest that the optimization of parameters such as hypoxia may lead to the development of strategies that enhance the therapeutic effects of the secretome for future regenerative medicine studies and applications.
Using KISS data for internal orientation, it is possible to note important differences between ICUs when interpreting infection rates; some initial examples of successful use of surveillance data for the reduction of infection rates are already available. However, the use of such data for external assessment is not possible, because external observers are often unable to fully consider important factors in the interpretation of infection rates.
Our data suggest infrequent utilization of esophageal and precordial stethoscopes in anesthesia training institutions. Thus, current anesthesia training may be fostering an environment where providers overlook a valuable minimally invasive, and cost-effective continuous monitor of patients' dynamic vital organ function.
Aortic spiral blood flow can be assessed with MRI. Lack of aortic spiral blood flow in patients with severe RAS is associated with significant short-term renal function deterioration. Determination of blood flow patterns may be a useful indicator of renal impairment progression in patients with suspected renal artery stenosis.
The relevance of SNB positivity cannot be overlooked in high-risk DCIS patients, however, because SNB is not free from morbidity and cost, more studies are needed to refine its final indication.
Altered HRV, may be associated with the onset of CIP in ICU patients. Although not statistically significant (P=0.06), altered RMSSD may be a surrogate marker of CIP in ICU patients undergoing mechanical ventilation. The physiological pathway linking HRV and CIP remains uncertain.
Breast cancer screening and area deprivation are strongly associated with disparity in LBSC in Appalachia. The presence of geographically varying predictors of later stage tumors in Appalachia suggests the importance of place-based health care access and risk.
Performance of the Kasai operation after 3 months of age is justified in selected cases, because it may obviate liver transplantation. Preoperative evaluation should exclude patients with advanced liver disease for whom liver transplantation should not be delayed.
This study demonstrated that perioperative Th2 dominance in addition to hypoalbuminemia and blood transfusion is associated with the occurrence of infection following colorectal cancer surgery. These results provide further information that may direct future treatments based on the Th1/Th2 concept focusing on decreasing the risk of postoperative infection.
Postoperative exacerbation of COPD is an existing, frequent clinical entity after lung resection and, when present, it increases the risk of pulmonary complications. The existing guidelines for the treatment of acute exacerbation should be adapted for the management of patients after lung resection in order to test the hypothesis that they could reduce respiratory morbidity.
Assessing both the depth of tumor invasion and lymph node morphology may reduce the false-negative rate and can be helpful to better identify candidates suitable for local excision of early stage rectal cancer. However, strict MRI criteria for oncologic safety might result in considerable false-positive cases and limit the application of local excision.
Although the WHO study group concluded there was a striking similarity in length/height among different populations, Hong Kong Chinese toddlers are, on average, shorter. Epigenetic constraints on growth coupled with the rapid epidemiological transition in Hong Kong may not have allowed sufficient generations for infants and children to reach their full genetic height potential, and with it the WHO standards. A universal infant growth standard may not be appropriate across all populations.
Sparing the PN during thymoma resection achieved good long-term and disease-free survivals in high-risk patients comparable with en bloc PN resection. However, it carried a higher risk of recurrence despite adjuvant radiation therapy.
In this urban area, proximity of home to clinic did not correlate with primary immunization completion or blood pressure in either a hospital-based or a community clinic.
SIBO is very common in gastroparetics with predominance of abdominal pain and bloating, especially those with a longer duration of gastroparesis. Awareness of SIBO in the setting of gastroparesis will facilitate separation of the 2 entities and allow appropriate therapies to be instituted.
Differential care seeking for boys and girls is not seen in Thatta despite clear differences in mortality ratios. This calls for more creative research to identify pathways for gender differential in child mortality. Factors identified as influencing child health care and amenable to modification include poverty alleviation and girls' education.
Our results suggest that if the lowest instrumented vertebra can be seen on a lateral radiograph and a line passing from the intended skin incision site to this level lies on top of the manubrium, a routine Smith-Robinson approach can be used to expose the level. To our knowledge, this is the largest series outlining a simple guideline for approaching the anterior CTJ.
Publicly reported quality measures for surgical site infection prevention do not distinguish the majority of hospitals that patients are likely to choose from when selecting a surgical provider. More studies are needed to improve public reporting's ability to positively impact patient decision making.
There was modest uptake of breast reconstruction after initial cancer treatment. Factors associated with delayed reconstruction were primarily related to uncertainty about the procedure, concern about cancer surveillance, and low priority. Those without reconstruction demonstrated significant informational needs, which should be addressed with future research efforts.
No specific restorative effect of CEA on cognitive functioning was observed. The preoperative impairment in several cognitive domains might be caused by factors that patients with various types of vascular disease might have in common, such as small-vessel disease or other undetected abnormalities within the brain.
Dravet syndrome can be recognised during the first year of life. It is important that physicians are made aware of these clinical criteria capable to distinguish febrile seizures in Dravet syndrome from febrile seizures of other origin, and set up a protocol to collect appropriate data regarding febrile seizures occurring in the first year of life.
The findings suggest mechanisms for the intergenerational 'transmission' of health disadvantage in migrant groups, across generations. More attention needs to focus on the public health legacy of inequalities transferring from one migrant generation to the next.
Intentionally choosing usual-care controls, even when a satisfactory placebo exists, would allow clinicians to capture the value of non-specific therapeutic benefits that are common to all interventions. The result could be more effective, patient-centered care that makes the best use of both specific and non-specific benefits of medical interventions.
Measuring the plasma concentration of sICAM-1 before the concentrations of cardiac markers increase in patients with MI may provide clinicians with faster and reliable data for deciding on and administering the most appropriate procedures and/or therapies.
This study showed that social support might have a beneficial effect on lifestyle and health, with negative experiences of social support affecting lifestyle and health differently from positive experiences of social support.
On the evidence from this single site, a skeletal assemblage from a mass disaster does not provide a better representation of the living population from which it was derived than that from a conventional cemetery.
There is a strong positive relationship between head circumference quartile and both caesarean section for failure to progress and caesarean for any indication. If this finding is confirmed using ultrasound measurements, there is potential for head circumference to be incorporated into predictive models for intrapartum caesarean section with a view to offering interventions to reduce the risk of caesarean section.
To avoid adhesions, it is essential that the acute and chronic inflammatory reaction to the implanted material be as small as possible. This requirement is met specifically by the lightweight polypropylene mesh TiMesh light. The additional application of a slowly absorbable adhesion-barrier film made of polylactide (SurgiWrap) does not appear to confer any further benefit.
Early use of antibiotics provides only modest benefit for acute otitis media: to prevent one child from experiencing pain by 2-7 days after presentation, 17 children must be treated with antibiotics early.
Approximately 25% of patients who receive primary prevention ICDs may no longer meet guideline indications for ICD use at the time of generator replacement, and these patients receive subsequent ICD therapies at a significantly lower rate.
Varicella disease has declined in areas with moderate vaccine coverage. Continued implementation of existing vaccine policies will lead to further reductions of varicella morbidity and mortality throughout the USA.
ALT produces a positive interference in the enzymatic Infinity kit which may affect interpretation and influence further clinical action. However, this positive interference due to ALT does not fully explain the discrepant results observed between the two methods in patients with acute liver failure.
Because we are able to establish tissue specimens by minimally invasive methods in most SVCS cases and because chemoradiation may preclude obtaining an exact pathological diagnosis, we suggest performing diagnostic interventions prior to chemoradiation in patients with SVC syndrome and without emergent clinical conditions.
The ten year prevalence of RMC in Nigerian SCD patients was determined to be 5.6 (estimated incidence of 0.56). RMC is not more common in SCD patients and therefore cannot be regarded as a "Seventh Sickle nephropathy". Most of the managing physicians reported that the commonest nephropathy observed in their SCD patients was chronic kidney disease.
There is considerable variability in the diseases, prices, and labels of panels. Policy guidance for establishing appropriate criteria for inclusion in panels may be useful to the Ashkenazi Jewish community, clinicians, and payers. Pricing strategies that offer financial incentives for the use of "more tests" should be reexamined.
A minimally invasive approach for AVR did not lead to an increased incidence of PPM and associated adverse events following surgery.
Involvement in CSGs was significant but not always positive for health. It is possible that CSG involvement is good for a community but not necessarily for the individual.
Although the methodological limitations of this open-label non-comparative cohort study preclude a definite conclusion, we believe that laboratory investigations, particularly leucocyte count, can guide the decision of when to discontinue larval therapy. However, this objective parameter cannot replace clinical judgement.
Patients' preferences and expectations of chronic disease management were framed by a strongly biomedical discourse. Perceptions of nurse-led chronic disease management were often shaped by what was previously familiar to the patient. At a strategic level, autonomous nursing practice requires support and further promotion to wider society if there is to be a shift in societal expectation and trust in the nurse's role in chronic disease management.
TT deficiency, COPD and advanced NYHA class were associated with higher prevalence of depression in men with systolic HF.
Selective HBV vaccination of MSM in the Netherlands has had a substantial impact in reducing HBV incidence. The reduction suggests that vaccination rates among high-risk MSM were higher than those among low-risk MSM. Countries that have not yet reached 35-year cohorts with universal childhood vaccination should actively implement or continue selective high-risk MSM vaccination.
Occupation, but not working conditions, affected the incidence of preterm birth. This result is discordant with other studies which underlined the excess of preterm births among women with strenuous working conditions. Reasons for this discrepancy may include (1) change in perception of "strenuous working conditions"; (2) improved working conditions; (3) the development of "preventive" strategies by pregnant women. Occupation is a more reliable indicator of risk than self described working conditions.
These data suggest that patients with high negative affectivity respond preferentially to antidepressants that selectively enhance serotonin neurotransmission. Although patients with low NA appear to benefit from serotonin enhancement as well, they also improved with bupropion, an antidepressant not thought to directly affect serotonin neurotransmission. These findings come from retrospective analyses using unproven approximation of NA, so no clinical inferences should be made before independent replication utilizing accepted NA measurement.
When surgical cytoreduction to no visible disease has been achieved in women with stage II and III epithelial ovarian cancer, FIGO stage, i.e., site and size of tumor masses prior to surgical cytoreduction, does not appear to influence outcome survival. The aggressiveness of the remaining microscopic disease would seem to be determined largely by histological grade. Bearing in mind the retrospective nature of this study and the relatively small cohort of patients, the results would appear to suggest that it is unlikely that there are any other significant parameters (hidden factors) affecting tumor biology which are independent of tumor grade in these patients. A possible implication of this result is that complete surgical cytoreduction confers a survival benefit by producing a biologically more homogeneous tumor.
Myocardial damage was not reduced by administration of 0.5 μg/kg loading dose and 0.5 μg/kg/h infusion of dexmedetomidine. However MPAP tended to be lower in the dexmedetomidine group. Large-scale clinical outcome studies are indicated to confirm the effect of dexmedetomidine.
Erosions, and particularly marginal erosions typical of those seen in inflammatory arthritis, are a more common feature of small joint OA than conventional radiographs have previously indicated.
Payers wishing to promote generic substitution should incorporate the potential for substitution of clinically appropriate generic medications as part of incentives for generic utilization to avoid unintended consequences of using a fixed target rate. A practical methodology for determining an MGR is offered.
Admission anaemia significantly influences all-cause mortality in patients with STEMI treated invasively ina six-year follow-up and may be used for risk stratification in this population.
The results indicate that the vitamin D3 supplement of 25 μg/day had no beneficial effect on glycaemic indices in healthy overweight or obese women.
This study provides initial evidence that baseline clinical predictors such as female gender and family history of ED might be specific to the later development of ED in the context of childhood OCD. Clinicians should be alert to ED subthreshold symptoms in young girls presenting with OCD. Future longitudinal studies are needed to clarify the relationship between childhood OCD and later ED.
Risk factors and laparoscopic findings failed to predict the few children who would develop a MIH. The contralateral side should not be routinely explored by any methodology.
In some cities, a small number of properties or property owners provide housing for a large percentage of lead poisoned children. However, this situation is not universal. In Rochester, a relatively small percentage of homes that housed a child with an elevated blood lead level have a history of housing lead poisoned children. In cities like Rochester, lead hazard reduction resources should focus on high-risk housing stock determined by factors such as age, value, and condition, rather than on those with a prior record of housing lead poisoned children.
Multiple mucosal biopsies of normal-appearing urothelium are not necessary for all patients with superficial bladder cancer. They are, however, necessary for patients with multiple papillary broad-base tumors and positive urinary cytology.
Results of bone age assessment by DXA scan are similar to those obtained by X-ray. The DXA method seems to be an alternative for assessing bone age in a paediatric hospital-based population.
A reverse J-shaped association between serum 25(OH)D and all-cause mortality appears to be real. It is uncertain whether the association is causal.
With either SSM-sat or GTO serving as the external criterion, COMI was as responsive as the SSM. The COMI is well able to detect important change in lumbar spinal stenosis and has the added benefit of reducing the response burden for the patient and facilitating outcome comparisons with other spinal pathologies.
Primary fascial closure is currently the preferred method of gastroschisis closure across Europe. Aspects of care such as strategy for intestinal atresia and delivery of parenteral nutrition differ significantly between WE and EE. Economic considerations appear to influence management strategy particularly in EE. A Europe-wide audit appears warranted to identify whether this survey reflects actual practice.
Caution and systematic evaluation should be undertaken before returning athletes with concussion to competition. Sole reliance on the self-report of the athlete may be inadequate. Preliminary data may suggest a more protracted recovery from concussion in high school athletes.
Poster exhibitions varied widely, with room for improvement at all 4 conferences. Lessons can be learned by all conferences from each other to improve presenter engagement with and the educational value of poster exhibitions.
Hypocomplementemia is of limited usefulness for detecting or predicting SEAMs.
Our case underlines the importance of knowing the age- and treatment-related incidence of physiologic thymic hyperplasia in young women with ovarian dysgerminoma in order to reduce the potential pitfalls and to avoid unnecessary invasive diagnostic procedures.
These results implicate reduced GMV in the amygdala and hippocampus in pediatric anxiety, particularly social phobia. In addition, the data suggest that genetic factors may modulate differences in the insula and dorsal ACC.
Current or past HA-MRSA skin carriage poorly predicts the need for anti-MRSA coverage for the antibiotic treatment of skin and soft tissue infections in hospitalized orthopaedic patients.
The relation between mortality and glucose was J shaped rather than showing threshold effect at high glucose levels, except for CVD mortality and 2hPG, where the relation was graded and increasing.
Most patients with an indefinitely diverted pouch had no complaints regarding the pouch. There was no case of dysplasia. Indefinite diversion may be preferable to pouch excision, especially given the associated morbidity.
Prevalence of increased UAE was similar to that described in other geographically close populations. The stronger association found with microvascular diabetes complications suggests that increased UAE is a better predictor for renal damage than for cardiovascular disease in this type 2 DM population.
Follicular fluid gelatinase activities, particularly MMP-9 activity, might be a predictor of oocyte quality and IVF success.
Planned place of birth has a significant influence on mode of birth and rates of intrapartum intervention in childbirth.
Results obtained by this study show that, although general complications develop significantly more often in elderly patients, age is not an independent risk factor for post-operative mortality after major pancreatic resection. Factors of importance in improving the outcome of this operation include the experience of the surgeon in selecting patients eligible to undergo the procedure, his operative skills in performing major pancreatic resections, as well as better anticipation and management of post-operative complications.
Chart review for attention to CCCs accurately reflects the understandings of patients, house officers, and nurses, but consultant physicians report more attention to CCCs than is recorded in the ward notes or understood by other observers. Better communication regarding end-of-life care plans should be encouraged.
Patients and clinicians do not always agree on whether a cancer care decision was made. As such, measures that ask patients and/or clinicians to evaluate a decision-making process or outcome may be methodologically insufficient when they do not explicitly orient respondents towards the thing they are being asked to assess.
Our results support the decision to transfuse, ST, preoperatively only if the patient is significantly below their steady-state haemoglobin (Hb) level. Transfusion can be used intraoperatively according Hb level and/or the blood loss volume. Exchange transfusion appeared mostly to be related to postoperative morbidity rates.
Increased urinary NGAL concentration is a strong predictor of mortality in patients with stable angina who undergo PCI and may be used for the risk stratification in this population.
By its ability accurately to evaluate hemodynamic status qualitative TEE could be useful for intensivists in managing circulatory failure in septic shock, rendering the more time-consuming quantitative evaluation useless.
The theoretical advantage of this cutting edge technology for whole body imaging has not been translated into clinical practice as we found minimal advantage of combined FDG-PET/CT over CT alone for nodal staging of muscle invasive bladder cancer. This may be due to substantial overlap between standardized uptake values (SUVs) from active inflammatory processes with those of malignant lesion.
The findings from this subclinical sample suggest that dysregulated cortisol awakening response and small HC volume may constitute vulnerability factors for major depressive disorder. Further investigations are needed to discern the mechanisms that may underlie these phenomena.
Men's violence against women in intimate relationships is commonly occurring in rural Vietnam. There is an obvious need of preventive and treatment activities. Our findings point at that pure psychological abuse is different from physical/sexual violence in terms of differing characteristics of the perpetrators and it might be that also different strategies are needed to reduce and prevent this violence.
Resection of post-chemotherapy hepatic disease is safe, even when combined with resection of extrahepatic residual disease. The varied histologic findings, lack of reliable predictors, and prolonged survival achieved support a multidisciplinary approach which includes surgical resection of hepatic metastases.
Ideal body image is associated with weight status, food self-efficacy and lifestyle behaviours among low-income African American adolescents.
PPS in high-risk patients reduced the risk of post-ERCP pancreatitis and nearly eliminated severe pancreatitis. No significant difference between the 4 Fr and 5 Fr in reduction of post-ERCP pancreatitis was observed. However, spontaneous migration was more frequent with the 4-Fr stent.
Although not statistically significant, there was a trend that antibiotics and age>45 years may be protective against the formation of fistulae. Similarly, the data suggest that the presence of comorbidity may increase the risk of fistula formation. We are encouraged by this result and propose to conduct a larger randomized prospective study.
Initiation of 17 P prophylaxis at 21-26.9 weeks is as effective as initiation at 16-20.9 weeks of gestation.
The "abnormal" motion patterns of chronic LBP patients did not correlate with subjective pain relief after ESF of the suspected symptomatic levels or with the midterm outcome of subsequent lumbar fusion surgery. The results suggest that preserved motion of the symptomatic segments before surgery is positively correlated with the clinical result of the subsequent spinal fusion in case of a positive ESF test result.
The LAP technique shortened the time patients wore the external fixator but was associated with a high incidence of varus deformity. Stronger plates may help prevent deformity and allow earlier removal of the frame.
Most GPs tend to pay attention to religion when their medical possibilities in patient care come to an end. GPs and trainees might be conscious of these aspects in patient management. Since most GPs are familiar just with Western religions, the increasing number of non-Western religious denominations might have consequences for patient care in general practitioners' work.
Telephone surveys using White Pages samples are suitable to collect information for prevalence on most commonly collected self-reported health conditions and health-related issues. The exception is smoking status.
Given the overall poor reporting of blinding in clinical trial reports and the small number of trials that could be rated as adequately or inadequately blinded, we could not draw any robust conclusions about the existence or absence of nocebo and enhanced placebo effects. A large placebo effect was found for patients taking PDE-5 inhibitors for the first time. It was not clear if previous exposure to the drug impacted trial blinding.We found clear evidence that studies assessing a subjective continuous outcome fail to report on measures taken to secure double blinding. Although we observed a trend for the presence of a nocebo effect, there was insufficient evidence to quantify its impact on expectations. RCTs with patients with no prior experience with PDE-5 inhibitors reported larger placebo effects and possibly these studies were better blinded. Future research should further investigate the factors that contribute to blinding and their impact on health outcomes in randomized trials of subjectively assessed conditions. This research is part of a PhD project and has no external funding. The authors have no competing interests to declare.
In pathological urines, direct measurement of urine osmolality should be used.
This trial has been feasible and randomization has been acceptable to most patients. Long-term follow-up of the patients on this trial should be able to definitively answer the question of the importance of an antireflux mechanism in the orthotopic neobladders construction.
In general, women were not good predictors of fetal sex. The mechanisms that promote maternal accuracy in predicting fetal sex for highly educated women are unknown. It is reasonable to expect that maternal perceptions of fetal sex contribute to the process of fetal attachment.
Based on the (EORTC) QLQ-C15-PAL, elderly advanced cancer patients have a different QOL profile. Similar observations have been reported with the (EORTC) QLQ-C30 questionnaire.
In this study, we demonstrated for the first time in the literature thatthere was impaired aortic elasticity and increased EFT in patients with brucellosis, while the myocardial performance index remained unaffected. We also determined that these effects had a significant correlation with inflammation.
The caregiver's burden seems to be independent of the patient's diagnosis, but other factors contribute to the perceived burden, many of which are on the caregiver's part. In Poland, the overall family burden may be attributed mostly to worrying about a mentally ill relative and his future. All caregivers may benefit from psychoeducation and family interventions usually planned for those caring for relatives with schizophrenia.
The diagnostic accuracy of the DT can be improved by the inclusion of simple addition linear domains without substantially increasing the time needed to apply the test.
Our study failed to demonstrate any association between student performance and patient-centered interviewing skills (PCI) in the setting of a comprehensive in-house CSA examination. Third-year medical students in our study did not practice some elements of patient-centered interviewing.
In this study population, parents of healthy newborns were more receptive to quitline referrals than parents of infants admitted to the NICU.
With the increased bonded surface area, the mean microtensile bond strength of the resin cement to the feldspathic ceramic decreased.
The ExMI procedure is an additional non-invasive therapy option for patients with urinary incontinence. However, sham-controlled studies are required to corroborate the therapy effect.
These findings support the possibility that autonomic dysfunction contributes to the association of hypertension with panic.
QT measurements on surface ECG are poorly correlated with local ERPs. If anything, QT- or QTc-DISP might provide a rough estimate of interventricular, that is, global DISP of ERP. Local or even intraventricular DISP of ERP is definitely not reflected by these QT measurements.
This unexpected finding might be explained by a broader range of plasticity in heterozygotes, which may increase susceptibility to environmental influences or to dysregulation of emotional arousal. This study is unique in combining the two largest attachment cohorts with molecular genetic and observed rearing environment data to date.
In the present study, ED ratio and LUTS severity significantly increased in older men. We did not find significant relationship between aging and SLOH symptoms. In the light of our results, LUTS seems to be an important risk factor on erectile function.
In cirrhotic patients, DD is strongly related to the increase in LV mass, not related to the stage of the liver disease, and can be correctly detectable only by the use of tissue Doppler imaging. For systolic dysfunction, along with the development and worsening of ascites, CO and CI do not increase further to compensate the continuous reduction of PVR and mean blood pressure, and their maintenance becomes critically dependent on the heart rate, thus suggesting a possible detrimental effect of β-blockers in these patients.
Children with nonsyndromic cleft lip and palate show symptoms similar to a naming-memory deficit model of developmental dyslexia. Reading treatment should avoid sight word approaches and focus on oral phonics treatment.
MRI measurements of ventricles are significantly larger than the measurements by US by ∼1 mm. There is a good level of agreement when categorizing by normal, mild and severe ventriculomegaly.
Our results suggest that bipolar II patients are as disabled as bipolar I patients. This may be explained, in part, because bipolar II patients experience greater lifetime residual depressive symptoms than the bipolar I subgroup, which may have particular impact on cognitive domains of functioning.
Despite routine pain screening in VA, providers seldom documented elements considered important to evaluation and treatment of pain. Improving pain care may require attention to all aspects of pain management, not just screening.
CS attenuated MSU crystal induced macrophage inflammation, suggesting a possible role for CS in gout prophylaxis.
Knowledge of larval ecology of vector mosquitoes is a key factor in risk assessment and for implementing appropriate and sustainable vector control operations. The presence of fluoride in potential breeding habitats and a strong positive correlation with An. stephensi immature density is useful information, as fluoride can be considered an indicator/predictor of vector breeding. Effective larval source management can be focussed on specified habitats in vulnerable areas to reduce vector abundance and malaria transmission.
Physiogenomic evidence suggests a novel link between LDLC levels and the regulation of fatty acid metabolism. The findings complement previously discovered novel SNP relationships to myalgia (pain) and myositis (serum creatine kinase activity). By genotyping for myositis, myalgia and LDLC levels, a physiogenomic model may be developed to help clinicians maximize effectiveness and minimize side effects in prescribing statins.
Switching to a new medication yielded no advantage over staying on the previous medication. Staying on olanzapine was associated with greater weight gain.
Affiliation with an organization that provides ongoing HPN education and peer support was associated with significantly better HPN outcomes. Alternative explanations are discussed in relation to limitations of the case-control design.
SLE flares less frequently and seriously after menopause. While this may suggest a protective role of hypoestrogenemia against lupus flares, the contribution of other factors like disease duration and effective treatment to this postmenopausal decline of flares cannot be separated from menopause per se. Further studies are needed.
As this is a non-randomised retrospective review of two consecutive studies, no firm conclusion can be drawn. It seems, however, that in elderly patients with AOC the use of paclitaxel results in more toxicity. CGA parameters and particularly emotional disorders might help to determine a priori the risk/benefit ratio of chemotherapy in this patient population.
Risk-adjusted LOS was longer in VA hospitals than in other United States hospitals. However, differences in LOS narrowed between 1996 and 1999. These findings suggest that changes in the organization and delivery of VA health care in the mid-1990s may be closing the gap between the VA and other healthcare systems in hospital utilization.
Male sex and smoking decrease the protective effects of the N allele. The adverse effects of the K allele on the CAD risk resulting from the K167N polymorphism appear to be independent of other cardiovascular risk factors.
This study provides longitudinal evidence that changes in residents' fear of crime influence their walking behaviours. Interventions that reduce fear of crime are likely to increase walking and produce public health gains.
This study confirms that JR is often present during successful slow pathway ablation. The pattern of JR is useful as indicator of success.
Combined coronary artery bypass grafting and carotid endarterectomy may be associated with a higher risk of stroke or death than staged procedures. A randomized trial needs to be performed to determine the optimal management of patients with concomitant carotid and coronary artery disease.
This is the first report to analyze the metastatic pattern of EOC on the appendix with respect to depth of invasion which could not reveal a significant difference.
Medical directors of LTC facilities are aging, and many are considering leaving their work in LTC. Without an increase in the number of physicians willing to work in LTC institutions, the current shortage of LTC physicians could increase in the near future. Medical directors' responses to questions could help guide strategies to recruit and retain physicians. Future areas of research should include the perspectives of physicians who are not medical directors and of family medicine residents.
Revascularization surgery cannot always prevent rebleeding. However, a decrease in moyamoya vessels was induced by surgery, which may reduce the risk of hemorrhage more effectively than conservative treatment. In cases of adult moyamoya disease, direct bypass is particularly important, since the indirect revascularization is not as useful in adult cases as in pediatric cases.
Published case-control studies demonstrate a significant reduced risk of SIDS with pacifier use, particularly when placed for sleep. Encouraging pacifier use is likely to be beneficial on a population-wide basis: 1 SIDS death could be prevented for every 2733 (95% CI: 2416-3334) infants who use a pacifier when placed for sleep (number needed to treat), based on the US SIDS rate and the last-sleep multivariate SOR resulting from this analysis. Therefore, we recommend that pacifiers be offered to infants as a potential method to reduce the risk of SIDS. The pacifier should be offered to the infant when being placed for all sleep episodes, including daytime naps and nighttime sleeps. This is a US Preventive Services Task Force level B strength of recommendation based on the consistency of findings and the likelihood that the beneficial effects will outweigh any potential negative effects. In consideration of potential adverse effects, we recommend pacifier use for infants up to 1 year of age, which includes the peak ages for SIDS risk and the period in which the infant's need for sucking is highest. For breastfed infants, pacifiers should be introduced after breastfeeding has been well established.
RYGBP achieved significant durable weight loss and effectively treated co-morbid conditions in SO and SSO patients with acceptable postoperative morbidity and slightly greater mortality than in MO patients.
Despite the increased upfront cost of external loop recorders, the marked improvement in diagnostic yield offsets the cost. External loop recorders are an economically attractive alternative. First-line use of external loop recorders in patients with "community-acquired" syncope and presyncope should be considered to optimize diagnostic yield given its value.
Anterior disc displacement without reduction could be accompanied by a decrease in condylar height in juvenile patients, and the disc might be shortened and more anteriorly displaced.
Neither color nor power Doppler imaging improved the capability of sonography for making a specific diagnosis of benign hepatic cavernous hemangioma.
LSPX is highly associated with recurrence and TPX with continuous hypoparathyroidism, also after long-term follow-up. SPX should be the chosen method in the majority of patients with MEN1 HPT.
This study provides further evidence that a multisensory teaching intervention effectively imparts the necessary knowledge, skill and confidence in fourth year medical students to manage epistaxis.
Taken together, these findings emphasize the importance of identifying individual spatial FOR preferences to assess the efficiency of our interaction with the environment whilst performing spatial tasks.
The agreement between the in vivo and in vitro approaches with respect to cangrelor-inhibited hallmarks of blood platelet activation and reactivity supports our proposal that flow cytometry is useful and reliable for determining the effects of antiplatelet agents on the activation of circulating platelets in the mouse model, as well as the in vitro response of platelets to agonists.
Thiopurines are tolerated better by children. When phenotype is matched, there is no difference in the therapeutic response to thiopurines between children and adults with IBD.
In conclusion, CD123/CCR6 DCs do not constitutively express IDO and "induced" IDO DCs, even coexpressing anti-inflammatory IL-10, do not suppress allogeneic T-cell responses.
CMH is a common finding in young adults, primarily in smokers. CMH was related to respiratory symptoms suggesting asthma, but no significant association was observed between CMH and objective signs of asthmatic airway lability. The present findings therefore may suggest that CMH is likely to be an early marker of smoking-related lung disease in young adults, instead of a marker of reversible obstructive lung disease, which may have important implications for the approach to young people presenting with respiratory symptoms suggesting asthma.
Although T2N0 rectal carcinomas are considered as low risk tumors, we found a considerable local recurrence rate of 3.7%. The question arises whether this result can be improved by adjuvant treatment modalities without being compromised by the toxicity of an adjuvant treatment.
Our results suggest that patients who bounce back to the ED might have already contacted their PCP. Although insurance status and the lack thereof predict a higher likelihood to bounce back to the ED, many bouncebacks are insured patients with PCPs able to be seen the same day.
The pressure along clamp jaws is unequally distributed in all the currently available vascular clamps. The Chitwood clamp is associated with the highest maximum pressure during complete aortic occlusion and with the most unequal pressure distribution along the jaws.
Linear measures of hydrocephalus in TBM were more reliable than volumetric ratios. Hydrocephalus can be quantified most reliably using the FOHWR. This is useful for serial follow-up and for research of TBM.
These data confirm differing individual rates of lung function decline in alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency, indicating the importance of comprehensive physiological assessment and a personalized approach to patient management.
This study makes apparent the intimate relationships between vessels and the musculoskeletal structures associated with sternoclavicular reconstruction. Based on our findings, we recommend considering the sex of the patient, using caution when drilling, and protecting essential structures posterior to the joint.
The preliminary results obtained using scrambler therapy are extremely encouraging, both in terms of enhanced pain control after each treatment session and in view of the possible maintenance of effectiveness over time.
Contrary to expectation, the CYP2C9 activity was lower in Turkish BD patients compared to healthy subjects. As this seems not to be due to colchicine treatment, our hypothesis is that inflammation related to BD might have caused the down-regulation of the CYP2C9 activity due to immune cytokine reactions. The ultra-rapid metabolism of CYP2C9 substrate drugs in the Swedish patient was not due to her BD.
We conclude that in early follow up AAA which diminish in diameter following endoluminal repair remain isolated from the general circulation. Co-incident with this decrease in AAA diameter, the proximal and distal necks increase in diameter but do not undergo any shortening in length. This paradoxical increase in neck diameter, was not progressive in the period of follow-up.
In the population studied, microalbuminuria was not a good marker for diabetic retinopathy.
Chronic pain is associated with self-reported appetite impairment in older adults, but examination of the influence of reduction in pain intensity on appetite improvement is needed to establish a causal relationship between chronic pain and diminished appetite.
Infants undergoing LTx have outcomes similar to those of all other pediatric LTx patients.
Use of a multivariate index based on clinical variables is a promising approach to assist in the selection of patients with a favorable risk-benefit profile for thrombolytic therapy beyond 3 hours.
Local symptoms do not confer worse prognosis compared with patients with incidentally detected UTUC. However, systemic symptoms are associated with worse outcomes despite apparently effective RNU. Patients with systemic symptoms may harbor micrometastatic disease and could potentially benefit from a more rigorous metastatic evaluation or perioperative chemotherapy regimens.
Patients with diabetes and renal failure should be considered as candidates for alternative vessel imaging in order to avoid inconclusive examination results.
Higher juice intake at 1 year was associated with higher juice intake, SSB intake, and BMI z-score during early and mid-childhood. Assessing juice intake during infancy could provide clinicians with important data regarding future unhealthy beverage habits and excess adiposity during childhood.
We suggest the use of PET/CT in investigating metastasis in axilla positive and clinically stage II early breast cancer patients.
As of 2014, maternal plasma DNA testing appears to have had only a minor impact on serum screening rates in the United States. Ongoing surveillance has the potential to determine if, and when, DNA testing begins to replace serum testing as a primary screen for Down syndrome in the United States.
It may not be the amount of abuse per se that affects the nurses' intention to leave, but rather how the abuse is perceived, the skill in dealing with it and the support received from administration.
Prolonged retraction time and coincident increases in t-EMG thresholds are predictors of declining nerve integrity. Increasing t-EMG thresholds, while predictive of injury, were also observed in a large number of patients without iatrogenic injury, with a greater predictive value in cases with extended duration. In addition to a careful approach with minimal muscle retraction and consistent lumbar plexus directional retraction, the incidence of postoperative motor neuropraxia may be reduced by limiting retraction time and utilizing t-EMG throughout retraction, while understanding that the specificity of this monitoring technique is low during initial retraction and increases with longer retraction duration.
Our results suggest that CCA IMT may be used in prediction of possible infarct side, and in the prediction of potential risk of stroke by evaluating the IMT of both CCAs separately.
The clarity and clinical applicability of a guideline may be important attributes that contribute to the effects of practice guidelines.
Our study results show that both BMI Z-score and OGTT stimulated hyperinsulinaemia are good predictors of MS occurrence in obese children and adolescents. The risk of dyslipidaemia and hypertension increase significantly with hyperinsulinaemia and insulin resistance, with low HDL cholesterol being the most affected.
This study suggests that therapeutic feeding programs using an outpatient model should routinely evaluate the water supply in their target children's villages if they are to provide optimal care.
Health-care professionals, families and patients who are religious will frequently want more extensive treatment than affiliated individuals. Views on active euthanasia are influenced by both religion and region, whereas views on patient autonomy are apparently more influenced by region.
The likelihood of developing RION is primarily influenced by the total dose. Hyperfractionation may reduce the risk of experiencing this complication.
Prevalence of AF was in keeping with previous estimates. The proportion of patients with AF receiving warfarin therapy appears to be increasing. In the moderate risk group, there was a tendency to use more warfarin in the younger age groups compared to the elderly. It was in the moderate and low risk groups that there was still evidence of deviation from published guidelines.
KCCQ scores provide a clinically important and statistically robust independent prognostic information on hard outcome endpoints of HF patients on the top of the clinical scores. It is suggested that KCCQ should become a routine component of the patients care and of prognostic profiles.
A single fast acquisition axial MR sequence can evaluate 85% of the non-biometric components of the fetal ultrasound survey. Fetal lie is an important confounder in the ability to resolve fetal anatomy with a single MR axial uterine acquisition.
There was no personal or professional style particularly related with patient satisfaction. Nevertheless, there is a slight trend towards a higher satisfaction when patients feel enough time has been spent in their consultation. The new organizational resources (one-visit clinic and nurses' empowerment) are both welcome but are not clearly related to patient satisfaction.
Specialists and generalists can teach preclinical medical students with equal effectiveness as rated by the students and the students' scores on the OSCE examination, but specialists do not rate themselves as confident as do generalists to teach some skills.
This case offers evidence that even people with severe memory and initiation impairments can be trained on new routines using errorless learning and that, once learned, these routines can be carried out in novel contexts.
Strabismus surgery with adjustable sutures has a statistically significant better, final result than surgery without adjustable sutures. Patients' satisfaction and percentage change in angle of deviation is also much higher in the adjustable sutures group. As age, sex, number of previous surgeries, previous injections of botulinum toxin, and type and amount of deviation do not influence the final outcome, this type of surgery can be performed in virtually all types of patients.
These results do not support the current practice of using antenatal bowel dilatation as a prognostic indicator.
There is a possible genetic overlap between dementia and psychosis. This appears to be more pronounced with early onset dementia than with late onset dementia.
Galactosyl expression is maintained within pancreatic islets after isolation procedure. Gal knock-out pigs could represent the solution to this hurdle.
Adrenergic hyporesponsiveness is present in septic shock and persists for at least 5 days into recovery, resolving by days 8-10 in survivors.
ECT was shown to be particularly useful in the treatment of suicidally inclined depressed patients, suggesting that ECT should be an early consideration for suicidal patients.
Using individual-level data to detect obesity clusters with two cluster detection methods, the present study showed that the spatial concentration of obesity was wholly explained by neighbourhood composition and socioeconomic characteristics. These characteristics may serve to more precisely locate obesity prevention and intervention programmes.
Statistically significant differences were noted concerning the incidence rates between four different counties as well as between two different decades. Although genetic factors might partially explain our results, environmental factors seem to be the main culprits.
The maternal ICD-9 code 655.0 had a very high (97%) positive predictive value for identifying fetuses with a CNS defect; 655.00 was particularly effective in identifying neural tube defects pregnancies terminated before 20 weeks gestation that would be difficult to ascertain, especially by passive surveillance systems using infant related data alone.
Blocking settings have a greater impact than choice of blocking product on frequency of health information blocking. At their least restrictive settings, overblocking of general health information poses a relatively minor impediment. However, searches on some terms related to sexuality led to substantially more health information blocking. More restrictive blocking configurations blocked pornography only slightly more, but substantially increased blocking of health information sites.
Results of this pilot study provide evidence of PCOS women self-reporting discrete psychosocial developmental patterns compared to non-PCOS women. These differences in retrospective self-reported accounts may be factual or biased by current psychosocial differences, such as depression.
Ultrasound probes that are wiped with a paper towel until they are visibly clean do not contribute to nosocomial infections. Additional antiseptic solutions such as Hibidil are not necessary. We suggest that probes be simply wiped with a clean, dry, nonsterile paper towel between procedures, including probes used on contaminated scanning fields, open wounds, and cutaneous infections. After the final procedure of the day, probes should be cleaned with a liquid cleaning solution such as Hibidil to remove all traces of coupling gel, which could support the overnight growth of bacteria. This would decontaminate the probes and prevent the overnight growth of bacteria. This method would be both a cost-effective and time-efficient protocol for controlling infection.
Although we detected differences in some patient-reported outcomes scores for pain and function favoring implants with stems, the differences were small and unlikely to be clinically important. Because these stems may have disadvantages, perhaps including difficulty of revision, we cannot draw a strong conclusion in support of their use.
Provider advice delivered in routine practice settings has a substantial effect on the success rate of smoking cessation among smoking patients. Providing advice consistently to all smoking patients, compared with routine care, is more effective than doubling the federal excise tax and, in the longer run, likely to outperform some of the other tobacco control policies such as banning smoking in private workplaces.
Using the tools of descriptive epidemiology different cancer groups with different temporal and spatial incidence trends were identified. This diversity suggests different latencies and different sensitivities of those groups to the main risk factors, alcohol and tobacco.
Therefore, we are introducing a novel type of stem cell with immunomodulatory properties. On the other hand, it is questionable why PI-SCs cannot protect the insulin producing cells from attacks of autoreactive T-cells in the developing of type1 diabetes. For this purpose, further molecular researches in vitro and in vivo are needed to clarify why PI-SCs may not suppress attacks of autoreactive-immune-cells towards PIs. PI-SCs from diseased people should be compared with pancreas of healthy ones at both genomic and proteomic levels.
This novel AR tracking system proved to be functional with a reasonable margin of error and image-to-image registration time. Mounting the pre- or intraoperative imaging properties on real-time videoendoscopic images in a real-time manner will simplify and increase the precision of laparoscopic procedures.
Thinner melanomas are more likely to have been detected by physicians. Increased awareness by all physicians may result in greater detection of early melanomas.
This study is important because it shows for the first time that the SPV does not change significantly in the prone position, and may therefore continue to be used as an indicator of the volume status. It also would appear to indicate that our methods for protecting the chest and abdomen in the prone position are effective.
The perineal approach is the reference incision, as the penoscrotal approach is associated with a high rate of erosion. The penoscrotal urethral approach can constitute an alternative when the bulbar urethra cannot be used.
In the terminally failing human myocardium, the caspase cascade is partially activated in the presence of a consistent phenotype shift toward enhanced susceptibility to apoptosis. Although the system is still under a fragile control, the partial initiation of the apoptotic program may be of functional relevance also for the surviving cardiomyocytes.
Today's residents represent a heterogeneous group of individuals with different learning needs based on level of experience, knowledge, and learning style. Our study highlights unexpected but critical learning needs for senior-level residents that can and should be readily addressed.
In patients with a first uncomplicated AMI, DE is useful in identifying patients at high and low risk of future spontaneous cardiac events. The optimal strategy for prognostication of these patients is to perform EE in all and DE only in the ones with a positive EE.
Papilloma with or without atypia was found in 5% of patients who underwent MRI-guided VAB during the study period. Surgery revealed cancer in 6%. DCIS was found at surgery in 9% of lesions yielding papilloma with atypia versus 5% of lesions yielding papilloma without atypia. For lesions yielding papilloma with or without atypia at MRI-guided VAB, surgical excision is warranted.
In this study, S-100 seemed to be a possible marker for a certain degree of neurologic deficit after cardiac operation in neonates, especially regarding postoperative seizures. The missing peaks of this protein in one newborn with poor neurologic outcome show that it is not possible to exclude damage to the brain with normal postoperative values. These results suggest that the mechanism of cerebral damage and S-100 release into the blood in neonates with a developing central nervous system and blood-brain barrier is not fully understood.
These data suggest the existence of a common cold constitution, whereby some children are more susceptible to infection and/or the expression of clinical symptoms when infected than are other children.
A significant number of RPH children had postnatal hydronephrosis. Despite a slower resolution time, no children with RPH required intervention. Although RPH may recur postnatally, the significantly lower chance of intervention being required suggests that these children may not require postnatal imaging.
The use of focus groups has entailed some difficulties in the interpretation of the results, but a number of preliminary conclusions can be drawn. Ill-structured medical problems can be used to elicit EB. Most trainees and trainers displayed pre-reflective and quasi-reflective EB. The way trainees and doctors view and justify knowledge are likely to be involved in medical reasoning processes.
Surgical technique varies widely despite the level of expertise and training. This study highlights the need for an evaluation of the effect of surgical technique on outcomes.
Hormone suppression plus radiotherapy significantly decreases recurrence and mortality of patients with localized prostate cancer, without affecting toxicity.
We conclude that these clinical assessment tools should be regulated because, as we will argue, any screening tool that can assess patients for the potential for opioid-related aberrant behaviors are powerful instruments that merit additional scrutiny and oversight--perhaps by the FDA and other regulatory agencies.
Structural quality indicators of nutritional care are important in explaining malnutrition variance between the Netherlands and Germany. However, they did not explain the difference in malnutrition prevalence between the Netherlands and Austria. Investigating the role of process indicators may provide insight in the role of structural quality indicators of nutritional care in explaining the malnutrition prevalence differences between the Netherlands and Austria.
The clinical use of the Er:YAG laser with the system used in this study poses no risk to inner ear function if the total amount of energy is kept within the limits applied in this study.
Admission hyperglycaemia is associated with large vessel disease manifesting itself in the carotids as plaques and in the intracranial circulation as focal stenosis. Acute stroke patients presenting with admission hyperglycemia would require a more careful investigation for large artery disease especially in the extracranial vessels.
Findings from this study suggest the arts have merit beyond intrinsic artistic value and are a viable means of promoting health messages to the general population.
AF has a similar perceived impact on the QoL of spouses and patients. QoL improvement strategies for patients with AF should take spouses into account.
in patients with complete discoid lateral meniscus, lateral meniscus tear is seen less often with low- than high-riding Wrisberg ligament.
Intraoperative LTV ventilation in conjunction with PEEP and intermittent recruitment maneuvers is associated with significantly improved clinical pulmonary outcomes and reduction in length of hospital stay in otherwise healthy patients undergoing general surgery. Providers should consider application of all the 3 elements for a comprehensive protective ventilation strategy.
This study suggests that individual mechanism of injury criteria have no clinical or operational significance in pre-hospital trauma triage of patients who have an absence of physiological distress and no significant pattern of injury. These results add to the knowledge base of trauma presentation in the pre-hospital setting, especially in Australia, and are the baseline for further studies.
In contrast to the surface-etched implants, the titanium-coated PEEK implants lost some coating material. This was visible to the naked eye. More than half of all particles were of a size range that allows phagocytosis. This study shows that titanium-coated implants are susceptible to impaction-related wear debris.
There was an improved control of all bone and mineral parameters in our dialysis units, following the publication of the CKD-MBD KDOQI guidelines. In order to improve the iPTH values, a more frequent use of low Ca dialysate (1.25 mmol/L) and of non-calcium-based phosphate binders in this small subset of patients should be implemented, as recommended by the guidelines. Individualization of the CKD-MBD management may be successful, even when newer treatment options are not available. Finally, the guidelines implementation process should be a continuous and self-monitored process, with the help of periodic surveys.
Depressive complaints predict somatic health care utilization, but somatic morbidity attenuates this relation. Future research on this subject should include interaction effects of depressive complaints and somatic morbidity. Interventions aiming to reduce excess use related to mental distress should be primarily targeted on subjects with mental distress who have no comorbid somatic morbidity.
Apgar scores reported in PCHRs may not yield reliable information for epidemiological studies. When the PCHR is the only source of information for the neonatal period in an epidemiological study, it would be preferable to use a composite neonatal indicator rather than the Apgar score.
Despite having similar severity of illness and adjusting for other clinical differences, mortality rate was marginally lower in AA after being discharged from VA hospitals after ischemic strokes. This is contrary to prior reports from non-VA hospitals and suggests the possibility of access to care playing a role in stroke deaths.
Device-detected NSD episodes increase before inappropriate but not appropriate shocks. Novel alerts or automated algorithms based on NSD episodes may reduce inappropriate shocks.
EPT is a safe and cheap test, easy to be executed and that could provide good prediction of the outcome of OFC; so it might be used to avoid OFC-induced anaphylaxis in children affected by CMA. It can also help avoiding dietetic restrictions in tolerant children who show sensitization towards cow's milk proteins.
1) The systematic use of parent questionnaires in baby check-ups at ages 6 to 8 months is likely to increase the efficacy of the screening. 2) The efficiency of the questionnaires currently in use, however, needs to be improved and can be improved with the data from the study. 3) The compliance with extensive hearing testing in children who have failed the screening test must be improved. 4) Due to the high prevalence of conductive hearing loss in this age group, treatment of potential glue ear problems is mandatory before referral for extensive testing for sensorineural hearing loss.
This study illustrates the complex nature of MRSA carriage and bacteraemia in patients in a specialized hepatology unit. Despite numerous ongoing interventions to prevent MRSA bacteraemia in healthcare settings, these are unlikely to result in a zero incidence in referral centres that treat highly complex patients.
Observers tend to estimate vocal fold lesions to be larger and more frequently suspect malignancy while assessing NBI images. Compared with WL, NBI demonstrates increased sensitivity and decreased specificity for detection of malignancy. Nevertheless, the specificity and sensitivity of NBI alone are considerably low.
This study presents a new chest radiography quality control tool which allows assessment of field sizes, distances, overexposures and quality parameters based on the EC guidelines. Utilising this tool, we detected inadequate field sizes, inspiration depths, and patient positioning. Furthermore, some debatable EC guideline aspects were revealed.
In this setting, curriculum innovation was associated with positive changes in student well-being but not on performance.
The improved spatial and temporal resolution of the 64 row scanner provides an excellent correlation of MSCT with CCA. MSCT is a valuable tool in the armamentarium of the cardiac scientist. For the cardiac surgeon performing off pump CABG it helps in precise planning of the procedure and pre-judging the length of the conduit required. On the basis of our findings, in selected patients, we recommend the consideration of MSCT as a sole criteria for proceeding for CABG without CCA.
The combined use of fine-needle aspiration and core biopsy improves the diagnostic ability of CT fluoroscopy-guided lung biopsy, even in small lesions.
The expanding hip fracture population has increasingly complex medical, social and rehabilitation care needs. This needs to be recognised so that appropriate healthcare strategies and service planning can be implemented. This epidemiological analysis allows projections of future service need in terms of patient numbers and dependency.
The study provides evidence to suggest that a meaningful and engaging therapeutic activity, such as using computer games controlled by leaning the upper body, can help to improve sitting ability in children with neuromotor dysfunction. Further work is required to understand fully what effects such activities have on the various components of sitting ability. [Box: see text].
A brief preventive antepartum group intervention focusing on psychoeducation, stress management, improving coping mechanisms, and the development of social support can be effective in reducing postpartum depressive symptomatology.
In women with symptomatic prolapse, fibromyalgia is associated with an increased risk of levator myalgia and 50% more symptom bother from pelvic floor disorders.
Concerns surrounding the design of physical activity programmes include side-effects such as injury risk. This study provides some re-assurance that physical activity participation relates to injury in a consistent manner across BMI groups.
The concentration of births in large maternity units in France is not associated with higher rates of interventions for low-risk births. The situation in private units could be explained by differences in the organization of care. Additional research should explore the differences in practices between maternity units with similar characteristics.
Preferred alternative decision-makers are an ethical safeguard to ensure the wellbeing and rights of seriously ill individuals. In this pilot study, preferred alternative decision makers were aligned with their ill family members concerning treatment-related decisions and underlying life values. Future research should continue to explore and clarify the views of ill individuals and alternative decision makers to determine the quality of this safeguard used in clinical settings.
Care of the institutionalized elderly with diabetes fails to meet ADA standards of care for the outpatient adult. Separate practice guidelines are needed for people with diabetes who reside in extended care facilities in order to improve quality and consistency of care.
The CAM seems to be an acceptable screening instrument for delirium, but the diagnosis should be ensured according to the formal criteria of delirium, preferably by the DSM-IV.
TTP strain as well as strain gradients were comparable between VVI and 2DS, but most peak strain values were not. The software-dependency of peak strain values must be considered in clinical application. Further studies comparing the diagnostic and prognostic accuracy of strain values generated by different software systems are mandatory.
Higher rates of smoking among young adults don't reflect less interest in quitting, fewer quit attempts, or less success in quitting compared with older adults. However, their reports of receiving or using much less help in quitting suggest that health plans and clinicians might be able to increase this group's cessation with more active support.
PCT and particularly PS can be used in patients with previously treated brain tumors to differentiate TIN from RPT. PS estimates can help increase the accuracy of PCT in differentiating these 2 entities.
Data on CRE and the physical activity level of patients with chronic pain obtained in this study show that chronic pain may have a greater impact on male than female patients. Sociocultural factors are probably at the origin of this phenomenon.
Our findings suggest that active cognitive reserve is a buffer for functional limitation across disability groupings. Cognitive reserve may provide an alternative lens for thinking about the disease course of MS, providing a longer "runway" until disability accrual through cortical remodeling. Loss of cognitive reserve may explain the onset of progressive disease in MS.
This study showed that spironolactone can reduce potassium requirements and prevent hypokalemia by reducing urinary potassium loss in neutropenic patients on AmB treatment.
A regulation football helmet substantially reduced the peak Gs associated with "heading" a soccer ball traveling at moderately high velocities. A helmet was also effective in reducing the peak acceleration both intraorally and intracranially for impacts significantly more forceful than heading a soccer ball.
The military nurses in this study did not feel fully prepared for deployed operations. We propose a new model for how military nurses could gain relevant experience from their National Health Service placements.
Women with RCC are more likely to have SIL on a FU smear compared with women with WNL smears (3.9% vs. 1.6%). It is important to emphasize that in the authors' laboratory, the rate of SIL in women with ASCUS is much higher (24%). Awareness of these rates combined with the clinical history may help clinicians determine whether women with RCC require closer FU.
This study confirms previous reports of an association of decrease in DXR-BMD during the first disease year with progression of radiographic joint damage over an extended period of time. This association was independent in a regression model only when radiological findings were excluded suggesting a possible predictive role of DXR-BMD in clinical practice when radiographic evaluation is not available. However, further studies are required before this can be established.
Introducing an electronic prescribing system has the potential to give rise to new types of risks to patient safety. Being aware of these types of errors is important to the clinical and technical implementers of such systems in order to, where possible, design out unintended problems, highlight training requirements, and revise clinical practice protocols.
Dental therapists feel that they are part of the clinical team but consider that their skills are not fully utilised in many cases. There is scope for raising awareness among dentists regarding the therapists' clinical potential as well as sharing ideas for good working practice both within individual clinical settings and between different practices.
Internists in this state-level organization widely supported organized participation in public discussions regarding PAS despite disagreements about its legalization, and support for organized participation was not affected by differences in religious affiliation nor substantially attenuated by differences in attitudes toward PAS.
This study confirmed confusion and low albumin as pressure ulcer risk factors, but not fecal incontinence. A DNR order was found to be a new pressure ulcer risk factor not previously described in the literature.
The protective effects of a standard ischemic preconditioning challenge on functional recovery after an episode of moderately hypothermic cardioplegic arrest can be duplicated by pharmacologic opening of adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium channels. This finding may be of clinical relevance because of the availability of potassium channel openers, such as nicorandil, for human use.
Further studies are needed to clarify whether SEMS placement increases the risk of perforation caused by bevacizumab-based therapies.
Similar outcomes were achieved with N and SS stents regarding efficacy, duration of stent patency, occlusion rates, and complications. Our results are most applicable to patients with common duct strictures and pancreatic cancer.
AST occurs in the minority of our patients. Certain pre-procedural variables predict AST. PES does not appear useful in predicting shock therapy in DCM patients and a negative PES should not preclude ICD implantation in this group.
EDLOS>8 hours and EDLOS<4 hours are not independently associated with mortality. A longer EDLOS is independently associated with longer IPLOS.
From these findings we can conclude that part-time doctors are not aiming at efficiency by limiting the size of networks or by efficient reachability, because they want to contact their colleagues directly in order to prevent from communication errors. On the other hand, together with the growth of teams, we found this strategy, focussed on reaching all colleagues, was diminishing. And our data confirmed that formalisation was increasing together with the growth of teams.
During incremental cycling exercise, the VO2 associated with the onset of a plateau in near-infrared spectroscopy-derived deoxyHb occurs in coincidence with the VO2 at respiratory compensation point suggesting that respiratory compensation point can be accurately estimated, non-invasively, using near-infrared spectroscopy-derived deoxyHb in alternative to the use of ventilatory-based techniques.
Students in this study were able to derive an examination of a satisfactory standard for their peers. Involvement of students in deriving examination standards may give them a better appreciation of how standards should be set and maintained.
This study illustrates that dural puncture is equally prevalent, though very rare, irrespective of the needle entry level into the epidural space, with an overall dural puncture rate of 1.4%, with 1.8% at the C5-C6 level, 0.87% at the C6-C7 level, and 1.71% at the C7-T1 level. Based on the present literature, it appears that performing the procedure by inserting the needle into the cephalic portion of the intervertebral space rather than the caudal portion may be safer.
Approximately half of patients with biopsy Gleason score 3+4 cancer have unfavorable disease at final pathology. Nevertheless, expanding AS eligibility to these patients may be acceptable provided adherence to strict selection criteria leading to a<20% risk of unfavorable disease. Future tools for selection such as magnetic resonance imaging, early rebiopsy, and serum markers may be especially beneficial in this group of patients.
PONS are common in schizophrenia spectrum diagnoses, and predict experiential symptoms at first presentation. Further prospective research is needed to examine whether negative symptoms commence during the psychosis prodrome.
we report the first case of toxoplasmosis presenting initially with myelitis in the absence of encephalitis that subsequently progressed to myositis despite antiparasitic treatment. We also discuss the possibility of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome as a cause of his deterioration.
This result indicates that specimen dilution does affect the number of laboratory-positive results confirmed.
In the INTRINSIC RV trial, among those randomized, DDDR AVSH was associated with similar outcomes as with VVI backup pacing.
Caregivers of AD patients undergoing donepezil monotherapy seem to be more satisfied with treatment than those of patients receiving the other usual AD treatments in this study, particularly due to the ease and convenience of use of this drug. The higher level of satisfaction of these caregivers could be explained by the fact that, within the donepezil group, a high percentage of patients were treated with orally disintegrating tablets, which are easier for the patient to swallow.
The determination of RASSS for radiographic damage of the spine is frequently impossible or strongly influenced by non-contributory imputation. In comparison to the mSASSS, the contribution of thoracic VCs in the RASSS method is negligible, and does not justify the additional scoring efforts.
Polish patients are somewhat different from those recruited in other countries, reflecting clinician's differing areas of uncertainty. These differences will be taken into account in the final trial analysis plan. The trial is still ongoing and more centres are welcome to join.
Participants perceived smaller differences between active internal and external rotation movements at initial rotation range than at the mid and terminal rotation range of movement. This suggests better proprioceptive acuity at the initial rotation range of movement in the transverse plane.
Among VLBW neonates, pre-eclampsia and IUGR are associated with a lower platelet mass, owing to their effect on platelet count. Histological chorioamnionits is associated with a larger platelet mass. A mass<10th percentile on the days following birth was associated with severe IVH and/or death, but it remains unclear whether this is a cause of, or an effect of, the IVH.
The decline in smoking among Canadians between 1999 and 2006 represents a major public health achievement. However, considerable smoking-related disparities exist between socio-economic groups, and have changed very little. Therefore, while recent programs and policies have succeeded in reducing overall tobacco use, they have not addressed socio-economic disparities.
Patients with pulmonary TB with no BCG scar and high initial AFB sputum intensity are at risk of remaining sputum culture positive at the end of the second month of anti-TB treatment. These findings reflect a beneficial role for BCG vaccination on sputum conversion which should also be examined in large studies in other areas. The finding of a beneficial role for BCG vaccination on the treatment of pulmonary TB is important for TB control and vaccination programmes.
In patients with primary brain tumors, electrophysiological changes in peripheral nerves, together with the presence of the antineural antibodies suggest an autoimmune humoral response, and make the diagnosis of paraneoplastic neurological syndrome possible.
This meta-analysis of prospective clinical studies suggests that recombinant FVIII products may differ in immunogenicity.
The results are very similar in both groups, with a similar percentage of abdominal pain not being appendicitis (60% v 54%). HMO patients did not pay for consultations, and the HMO was not charged for any consultations. However, it does not appear that they overused the consultations for abdominal pain that were not appendicitis. Their accuracy for correct diagnosis of appendicitis was similar to the private group (46% v 40%), and the incidence of perforated appendicitis for both groups was 28% to 30%. The authors cannot draw any conclusions from their experience that HMOs in general do refer patients to surgeons in a timely fashion, and do not delay the referrals to avoid the cost of consultation, because the authors had a capitated agreement with their HMO, and consultations were free. Both groups of pediatricians, the HMO and the private pediatricians, did not realize financial gain or loss by sending children to the pediatric surgeon and were not penalized by sending patients with abdominal pain to the surgeon. On the contrary, their referral habits and judgments were similar and did not appear to change by being part of an HMO.
Although most surgeons still prefer to use standard handheld Doppler for free flap assessment, respondents were significantly more likely to opt for immediate return to the operating room for a concerning tissue oximetry reading than an abnormal Doppler signal. This suggests that tissue oximetry may have the greatest impact on clinical decision making in the postoperative period.
CUA for the methods of X-ray dose reduction can be performed to determine if investment in low dose reduction is cost effective. The time-for-time method proved to be a coherent and versatile method for performing CUA.
Despite the excellent survival rate of EA, cases with antenatal detection have a higher morbidity rate related to the EA type (type I and/or long gap). Even though it does not modify neonatal treatment and the 1-year outcome, prenatal diagnosis allows antenatal parental counselling and avoids postnatal transfers.
Some patients with deep nodal involvement apparently are cured by CLND. However, it is the biology of the disease and not the extent of surgery that primarily governs outcome. Patients with clinical or radiological evidence of pelvic nodal disease without evidence of systemic disease should have a CLND, but we find no evidence to support CLND if the pelvic nodes are clinically and radiologically negative.
The prevalence of coeliac disease is high in a rural Australian community. Most patients are undiagnosed, and asymptomatic.
The risk of complications and mortality associated with colectomy was increased among patients with SDPs and the magnitude of the association was dependent on the type and quantity of additional procedures. Information on SDPs might reflect a component of operative risk not typically captured and should be considered as a candidate variable for risk adjustment when using claims to compare outcomes across large cohorts.
The data suggest that Kaposi's sarcoma is caused by a sexually transmissible agent which was introduced into the British homosexual population mainly from the United States [corrected].
Our rate of AVN was 27% using two classical treatment methods. Time-to-surgery, between 24 h and 7 days, was independently associated with AVN, supporting the possible existence of an "unsafe window" in patients with unstable SCFE treated by closed reduction and pinning.
In this population-based cohort of older adults, incident stroke did not explain black-white differences in cognitive decline or impact cognition differently by race.
The finding that documented injury extent had a significant positive association with both filing of charges and conviction is an important step in confirming the value of injury documentation in the forensic examination of sexual assault victims.
Patients undergoing allogeneic HPC transplantation are at risk of developing RBC-specific antibodies despite the immunosuppressive therapy administered. Antibody formation was more frequently observed in ABO-mismatched cases, which suggests a potential role of this incompatibility in facilitating antibody production.
Our results do not support the hypothesis that systemic Cpn, HSV or CMV- infection or evidence of Cpn-, HSV- or CMV-DNA in carotid plaques causes plaque destabilization and cerebral thromboembolism. Plaque infection could only be observed in cases with advanced atherosclerosis.
A considerable improvement in participants' knowledge of trauma concepts was demonstrated by statistically significant differences in both pre- and post-course written assessments and simulation exercises. The participants showed greatest improvement in trauma simulation scenarios, in which they learned, and subsequently demonstrated, a standardised approach to assessing and managing trauma patients. Low-cost simulation can be a valuable and effective education tool in low- and middle-income countries.
Low BMI was associated with reduced semen quality. The associations between BMI and semen quality were found statistically significant even after adjustment for reproductive hormones. Reproductive hormones cannot explain the association between BMI and semen quality.
Smokers in rural areas are less likely to use the New Zealand Quitline, even after controlling for confounding factors. This suggests that the national quitline is less effective in reaching rural smokers and more attention to the promotion of smoking cessation in rural communities is needed.
Their symptoms filled the criteria of chronic fatigue syndrome or idiopathic chronic fatigue (CFS/CF). An association between severe NC and autonomic dysfunction symptoms in children with CFS/CF has been presented.
Contrast-enhanced CT is highly sensitive for the detection of renal stones ≥3 mm in diameter and less sensitive for smaller stones. In cases where the clinical diagnosis is uncertain and performance of a CT examination is being contemplated, intravenous contrast utilization would allow assessment for stone disease while also optimizing evaluation for other conditions.
Sphincter-preserving operation with CCRT could be another option for the treatment of locally advanced lower rectal cancer in patients who are clinically considered for APR, with no deterioration of oncologic outcomes. For patients undergoing curative resection for lower rectal cancer, the pathologic N stage can provide valuable prognostic information about survival.
Findings suggest ways that brief interventions can be tailored for students and parents in relation to the MRC group.
The spreading pattern of injected solution in US-CRB could be partially affected by the injectant volume. However, further studies are needed to assess the importance of other factors, such as needle position and physiological effects.
In the primary care setting, many patients receiving GERD therapy do not have fully controlled symptoms. It is recommended that GPs question patients routinely about persistent symptoms on therapy, and OTC use, in order that effective treatment choices are made in the management of GERD.
Availability of cheaper cigarettes is not likely to be a cause of increased smoking initiation by adolescents. Although other influences cannot be ruled out, we suspect that the expanded tobacco marketing budget, with its increased emphasis on tactics that may be particularly pertinent to young people, affected adolescent initiation rates.
In all circumstances, both CT scan with spirometric gating and plethysmographic methods provide similar values of lung volumes. In contrast, the He dilution method can measure lower lung volumes in some patients with chronic airflow obstruction.
A surgical procedure should be regarded as the treatment of choice in patients with small CBTs. In larger CBTs, particularly in elderly patients with unimpaired cranial nerves, radical surgery should be regarded critically. As surgery for VPs caused regularly impairment of cranial nerves with functional disturbances of various degrees a comprehensive consultation with the patient is mandatory and nonsurgical strategies should be discussed.
Distinct patterns of diffusivity within the central and peripheral components of MS lesions suggest that axonal loss dominates in the T1 hypointense core. The effects of de/remyelination may be more readily detected in the "T2-rim", where there is relative preservation of structural integrity. Identifying and separating those patterns has an important implication for clinical trials of both neuroprotective and, in particular, remyelinating agents.
Routine, repeat testing of critical hemoglobin level, platelet count, white blood cell count, prothrombin time, and activated partial thromboplastin time results did not offer any advantage over a single run.
The anterior graft location showed no significant relationship to the final mechanical, pain, and neurological outcomes.
This is the first report demonstrating a clear link between macro-AST and a monoclonal gammopathy.
Self-reported sleep quality was associated with appetite and serum creatinine. A simple questionnaire to assess sleep disorders in dialysis patients should be administered routinely to detect those patients at risk of sleep complaints. However, further studies are needed to determine whether improving sleep quality, directly or indirectly, would improve morbidity and mortality.
Point shear wave elastography is an insufficient stand-alone screening tool for liver fibrosis and inflammation in a heterogeneous patient population.
A moving ambulance environment appears to impair the ability to perform closed-chest compressions.
The type of syringe used in the DSS technique to produce foam for sclerotherapy is a determinant of foam stability. Whether this will affect the result of sclerotherapy requires further investigation.
A surprisingly high prevalence of diabetes, despite expected increases with new lower criteria, was found in Europeans, as previously established in Caribbeans and Pakistanis. Lower height eliminated ethnic differences in regression models. History and relative poverty, which cosegregate with obesity and physical inactivity, are likely contributors. Whatever the causes, the implications for health services are alarming, although substantial preventive opportunities through small reversals of glucose distributions are the challenge.
Extralaryngeal branching was found in 64.53% of RLNs in this case series. In recent patients with intraoperative laryngeal nerve monitoring, electrophysiologic activity was observed in the branches, particularly the anteriorly situated ones. Recognition of this frequent anatomical configuration and meticulous preservation of all branches are of paramount importance to decrease postoperative morbidity associated with thyroidectomy.
Despite late enrollment in hospice and very short lengths of stay, most patients and families believe that they are enrolling in hospice at the right time.
Screening and revascularization of silent CAD in diabetics, failed to demonstrate a significant reduction in cardiac events and HF episodes. However, our data indicate that further research is warranted in patients older than 60 years and those with an intermediate cardiovascular risk. CLINICALTRIALS.GOV: NCT00547872.
We found that a majority of patients with TB were referred and the registration and initiation of treatment could be traced in>75% of patients.
The AIH score without liver biopsy findings was not useful for diagnosing AIH in NAFLD patients. In patients with elevated ANA titers and risk factors for NAFLD, it is very important to perform a liver biopsy to make a definitive diagnosis before treatment.
Permanent pacemakers Holters are the most accurate method of evaluating arrhythmia burden and the therapeutic efficacy of novel AF therapies. ICM has a high degree of artefact, which reduces its specifity and sensitivity. Despite the deficiencies of ICM monitoring the negative predictive value of the ICM is satisfactory if zero AF burden is the aim of therapy.
Our findings raise policy concerns that MC may reduce the quality of care provided by public SAT facilities by limiting the range of services offered. On the other hand, we find that FP clinics increase their range of services. One explanation is that MC results in standardization of service offerings across facilities of different ownership type. Further research is needed to better understand both the specific mechanisms of MC on SAT and the net impact on society.
MRI is an effective tool for predicting response to NAC. The accuracy of MRI in estimating postchemotherapy tumor size varies with tumor subtype. It is highest in ER-/HER2+ and TN and lowest in luminal tumors. Knowledge of how tumor subtype affects MRI accuracy can guide recommendations for surgery following NAC.
Screening mammography is associated with a decreased risk of detecting metastatic breast cancer among elderly women. Public health recommendations need to weigh the benefit of screening elderly women against the cost and potential harm from screening and treating early lesions that may have no effect on mortality.
We conclude that elderly women who had a tubal ligation have small changes in bone density that are not of sufficient magnitude to increase their risk of osteoporotic fractures.
Our study shows that development of elevated IAP during the early postoperative period can increase the risk of postoperative peritonitis. IAP measured during the immediate postoperative period can be used as a predictor of early relaparotomy.
For patients undergoing noncardiac surgery, preoperative endothelial function assessed by noninvasive peripheral arterial tonometry was not associated with perioperative AKI. Perioperative renal injury was associated strongly with MINS, and this may represent a mechanism by which AKI increases adverse outcomes.
The preferred side for SLTx differed between fibrotic versus emphysema recipients. Transplant side does not influence recipient survival, freedom from BOS, complications, or pulmonary function after SLTx. Besides surgical considerations in the recipient, offer of a donor lung opposite to the preferred side should not be a reason to postpone the transplantation until a better-matched donor is found.
Our study shows that the EarPopper(®) is a safe, effective treatment option for children with hearing loss from persistent OME, and it reduces the rate of ventilation tube insertion. More studies with larger sample sizes are required to support our findings.
Our data suggest that with the parameters applied in our study, radiofrequency ablation can be safely performed in patients with implanted clips. No aberrant conduction is observed around surgical clips that are located 20 mm and further from the radiofrequency electrode.
PD score and absence of PD signals can be predicted using routine clinical measures. When used in combination, Steinbrocker's stage, SJC and SDAI (or CDAI) can estimate disease activity and identify patients likely to have synovitis and requiring US.
Patients in 1996 were more likely to require referrals, were less likely to have symptoms consistent with bulimia nervosa, and were more likely to be admitted for medical stabilization. There were no differences in patient presentation characteristics or initial hospitalization rates based on their managed care status. Further research is needed to investigate the changes in illness severity at presentation and to assess the role that managed care plays in the treatment of patients with eating disorders.
TDC values of U-LP were significantly higher than those of T-LP, LipP and controls and may aid in differentiating lymphoedema from lipoedema. Interobserver agreement was high in ankle and lower-leg measurements but low in foot measurements.
A relation between pre-term birth and periodontitis was not revealed in the present study.
Off-pump compared with on-pump bypass surgery is associated with lower velocity and higher resistance in the grafts, mainly caused by changes in hematocrit and viscosity related to hemodilution.
The two instruments were in slight but significant disagreement. Estimates of effectiveness can vary according to the instrument used. Comparisons of effectiveness in healthcare programs measured by differing instruments need information on the functional discrepancies between the instruments in the conditions and interventions in which they are applied.
Risk and cost benefit suggest surgical guidelines should be reconsidered. Threshold for bariatric surgery should be redefined to BMI 35 kg/m2 or BMI 30 kg/m2 with comorbidities.
Recognizing the limitations of this retrospective study, it appears nonetheless that conventional stroke origins account for the majority of cerebral ischemic events in the adult cancer population. Although hypercoagulability is present to a greater extent than in the nononcological population, recurrent strokes seem to occur no more frequently than in the nononcological population, and antiplatelet agents seem sufficient therapy for most patients.
Given the most frequent pulmonary tropism, first hand chest CT may be sufficient at first diagnostic work-up for the detection of pulmonary metastases. However, the relatively poor specificity suggests that further analyses should be performed to identify clinical situations where PET-CT may be of added value compared to current standards.
Cost burdens are the product of complex relationships between social, economic and epidemiological factors. The cost data presented in this study reflect transmission patterns in the four districts, suggesting that a relationship between costs burdens and the nature of transmission might exist, and that the same warrants more attention from researchers and policy makers.
Reference values for the length, area, and circumference of the fetal choroid plexus at 11 to 13 weeks are presented. These may prove to be of clinical importance in the early screening for central nervous system abnormalities. In addition, the statistically significant difference between the right and left sides may be an early sign of "developmental" laterality.
Lateral meniscal length dimension can be accurately predicted from the authors' radiographic tibial plateau measurements.
BCVIs are not infrequent after blunt trauma. These injuries occur even in the absence of classically described risk factors. Liberal screening with WB-MDCT incorporates detection of these injuries into the initial diagnostic evaluation. Stroke occurs in a substantial number of patients and carries a very high mortality. However, nearly one third of patients with BCVI are not candidates for therapy. Treatment does reduce the risk of infarction in patients with BCVI, but strokes, when they occur, are not preventable.
Following phacoemulsification under peribulbar anaesthesia, the use of a gauze eye pad is associated with greater corneal fluorescein staining than a clear plastic shield without pad and offers no reduction in discomfort. A clear shield protects the globe against direct trauma, is associated with reduced moderate to severe corneal staining and facilitates vision in the early post-operative period. Transient diplopia reported by some patients given a clear shield is not disabling and would not be expected to occur in patients with one seeing eye. The use of a clear shield alone is a safe alternative to eye padding and offers important advantages in patients with one seeing eye.
Intraperitoneally, metabolism was slightly increased after OR; however, it was not suggestive of splanchnic ischemia. Leg findings reflected a more extensive ischemia after EVAR over 48 hours, which was a somewhat unexpected finding that may be related to the introducer's impact on blood flow to the limb during the intervention. Although no clinical consequences were recorded, the finding suggests some benefit of minimizing as much as possible the time of reduced perfusion to the limb.
Selective screening could be used to more efficiently identify heterosexual men and women at risk of chlamydia.
More complications are related to neobladder than to ileac conduit. LRC with minilaparotomy seems to be an attractive treatment option for patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer. Radical cystectomy performed intracorporeally could be reserved for 'robot-assisted' operations.
Off-label usage regarding aneurysmal neck length and angle tends to be incomplete without additional procedures. Conversely, various techniques, including non-compliant balloon usage and aortic stenting or cuffs, produce good results for the intraoperative type I EL. We found a relationship between the neck condition and the intraoperative type I EL, and showed the importance of strictly obeying our simple algorithm against the proximal type I EL.
Reducing fragmentation is necessary to provide opportunities for redistribution and to promote equity in utilisation of health services. Improvement in the delivery of services is crucial for achievement of improved access and financial protection and for increased enrolment into the CHF, which is essential for broadening redistribution and cross-subsidisation to promote equity.
With an ICER of $155K/QALY, the addition of bevacizumab to standard chemotherapy approaches common cost-effectiveness standards. Moderately discounting the cost of bevacizumab or using a smaller dose significantly alters its affordability.
This study showed the difficulty of diagnosing heart failure accurately based only on clinical symptoms, especially in women above 80 years.
The results of this study showed that the mandibular angle that contains an impacted M3 is more susceptible to fracture when exposed to an impact than an angle without an M3.
The results replicate previous studies of a model with a unitary ADHD component and separable specific traits of inattention and hyperactivity/impulsivity. The unique contribution of this study was finding support for this model across a large developmental and multinational/multicultural sample and its invariance across ages.
To ensure a stoma site is above the AL of the posterior rectus sheath its centre should be at least 4 cm above a horizontal line between the anterior superior iliac spines. This might reduce later herniation rates.
These data argue for further evaluation of PDX-1 as a biomarker for colorectal cancer.
Concern about health, belief about modern medicine and CAM are logically inter-related. Those who have high MHWs tend to be more sceptical about modern medicine and more convinced of the possible role of psychological factors in personal health and illness.
The spectrum of SFDs is drawn too widely in DSM-IV. At least some of the conditions now listed as SFDs in DSM-IV should be either given a dual diagnosis or classified simply as physical disorders.
In our cohort, RCRI and ThRCRI scores failed to accurately predict the risk of cardiac complications in patients undergoing elective resection of lung cancer. The British Thoracic Society (BTS) recommendation to seek a cardiology referral for all asymptomatic pre-operative lung resection patients with>3 RCRI risk factors is thus unlikely to be of clinical benefit.
There was a significant metabolic improvement, maintenance of the %EWL, and no worsening of liver histology. There has possibly been a publication bias concerning liver outcomes, where the type of JIB and the concomitance of hepatitis C were not taken into account.
No evidence was found that the TBI may overcome the potentially invalidated ABI in diabetic patients with an ABI ≤ 1.4. ABI and TBI are strongly associated, and this relationship is not influenced by diabetes. Therefore, the TBI does not allow for earlier detection of ischemia in diabetes.
Navigation reduced the rates of dislocation and impingement-related mechanical complications leading to revision in cementless THA using ceramic-on-ceramic bearing couples over a minimum 10-year followup.
It would be useful to incorporate personality characteristics into models to understand variations in service utilisation for mental health problems. The findings suggest that professionals would be wise to focus not just on their clients' emotional problems and disorders, but also on strengthening their problem-solving abilities through approaches like cognitive behavioural therapy.
The patients presented here were able to integrate daily occlusion lasting several hours and the electronic monitoring of occlusion treatment into their daily routine over a period of 12 months. During this period the VA of all included types of amblyopia improved significantly, both from a clinical and statistical point of view. Further long-term studies using ODMs with larger groups of patients may identify factors for success of treatment, reveal the long-term stability of the improvement and contribute to a standardised treatment in this age group.
Tricuspid annuloplasty is an easy and safe procedure, mandatory in case of at least moderate functional tricuspid regurgitation to achieve better mid-term outcome in patients with functional mitral regurgitation undergoing mitral valve surgery.
The self-centering mechanism of the bipolar endoprosthesis functioned in the patients with osteonecrosis, but did not work in the coxarthrosis group.
Obese men have lower arterial distensibility and higher circulating PTX3 levels than non-obese men; therefore, higher PTX3 levels and decreased arterial distensibility coexist in obese men. The high PTX3 concentrations in obese men may be involved in the mechanism underlying the obesity-induced decrease in arterial distensibility.
Averaged over many primary care visits provided by many physicians and midlevel practitioners, patients in this MCO were as satisfied with care provided by PA/NPs as with care provided by MDs.
This observational study does not support the view that blood transfusions are associated with increased mortality rates in acutely ill patients.
These findings show that there is a significant difference in gaze patterns between novice and expert surgeons while watching surgical videos. Expert gaze recording from the operating room can be used to make teaching videos for gaze training to expedite learning curves of novice surgeons.
CYP2D6 genotypes caused expected differences in pharmacokinetics, but they had no pharmacodynamic consequence. CYP2D6 genotypes did not influence pain control, the adverse symptoms nausea and sedation or the risk for cognitive failure in this study of patients treated with oxycodone for cancer pain.
Our study results confirm the importance of epidemiologic characteristics of Hp infection in our region.
Our findings support the hypothesis that long-term insight in psychosis seems to be, to some extent, determined from first presentation, showing trait-like properties. A subgroup of 'lacking insight' patients, which is characterized by a diagnosis of schizophrenia, lower levels of premorbid adjustment and less severe depressive symptoms at baseline might benefit from special interventions targeted at enhancing insight from their first contact with psychiatric services.
The protocol identifies projects that include a gender perspective. Use of this protocol will improve the quality of research and will help to reduce gender inequities.
When the influence of one of the most common oral diseases such as RAS on OHR-QoL was taken into consideration, OHR-QoL provides an additional dimension that may help to improve the impact of a disease on an individual's life. In relation to this, colchicine seems to be one of the most effective management strategies used in RAS.
Our data fail to demonstrate significant advantages of MPCNL in terms of reduced surgical trauma and associated invasiveness compared with standard PCNL based on the variables objectively measured in this study.
This study adds to a growing evidence-base indicating the efficacy of MBCT for depression, anxiety and stress, and extends these finding to older adults. This study found older adults to have elevated levels of certain facets of mindfulness and recommendations are made for researching the possibility that mindfulness may be an extension of the developmental process.
Hot flashes are not associated with sleep disturbance, unless they are bothersome. Mid-life patients should routinely be queried about the bothersomeness of their hot flashes.
Metazoan alpha2-macroglobulins inhibit proteases of pathogens. The bacterial homologs may function in reverse to block host antimicrobial defenses. Alpha2-macroglobulin was probably acquired one or more times from metazoan hosts and has then spread widely through other colonizing bacterial species by more than 10 independent horizontal gene transfers. yfhM-like bacterial alpha2-macroglobulin genes are often found tightly linked with pbpC, encoding an atypical peptidoglycan transglycosylase, PBP1C, that does not function in vegetative peptidoglycan synthesis. We suggest that YfhM and PBP1C are coupled together as a periplasmic defense and repair system. Bacterial alpha2-macroglobulins might provide useful targets for enhancing vaccine efficacy in combating infections.
Designing protocols for specific lung pathologies using lower dose acquisition parameters is feasible, and by applying iterative reconstruction, radiologists may have better diagnostic confidence to evaluate some lesions in very low dose settings, preserving acceptable image quality.
SIRSS of less than 2 on day 1 has a high negative predictive value for complications of AP. Eighty percent of the patients with persistent SIRSS on day 3 will develop at least 1 adverse outcome. A new variable "cumulative SIRSS" has the potential to reliably predict late-onset persistent organ failure.
While an imperfect proxy of interventions is directly applicable to the broader United States, the contrast between military observations and reported racial disparities among civilian EGS patients merits consideration. Apparent mitigation of disparities among military-/civilian-dependent patients provides an example for which we as a nation and collective of providers all need to strive. The data will help to inform policy within the Department of Defense and development of disparities interventions nationwide, attesting to important differences potentially related to insurance, access to care, and military culture and values.
It is suggested that they may represent a group of patients suffering an evanescent "IPSID-equivalent" disorder (last case diagnosed in 1975), that probably has evolved in similar but not identical epidemiological circumstances to those present in the "Third World" countries of our Mediterranean area.
The posterior horizontal dislocation distances differ with the individual component geometries of dual-mobility designs, with the anatomic and modular designs showing higher posterior horizontal dislocation distances compared with subhemispheric dual-mobility and standard hemispheric fixed-bearing designs.
About 12% of young men were interested in addressing their drinking within the BMI framework, suggesting that there is some need for easily accessible alcohol intervention. The present intervention did have a preventive effect among low-risk young drinkers in helping them maintain their patterns of alcohol use. An explanation for the lack of effectiveness among heavy episodic users might be that those individuals interested in BMI had patterns of more severe alcohol use, thereby making change more difficult.
There was little evidence to support the additional benefits of EMD in conjunction with other regenerative materials.
This study documents that open-set speech recognition in pure auditory mode is feasible in patients with ABIs. Large tumor volumes do not prevent good outcome. Positive preconditions are short ipsilateral and short bilateral deafness periods and high number of auditory electrodes. Early ability in pure auditory word recognition tests indicates long-term capability of open speech perception.
There is a great variation in NaOCl concentrations, with domestic NaOCl being the least accurate. NaOCl can be stored up to 5 months. The FAC concentration of domestic NaOCl is unpredictable, and, therefore, it appears less suitable for clinical application as root canal irrigant.
Adding the parameter of "width between insertion sites" appears to enhance our ability to detect avulsion of the levator ani (LA) muscle by digital examination however it does not distinguish between unilateral or bilateral avulsion.
These data suggest (1) that in renal fibroblasts SMA expression can be modulated by both serum and ECM proteins and (2) that PTE induce a fibrogenic phenotype in both non-activated (low SMA) and activated (high SMA) fibroblasts via different mechanisms.
There is some evidence of an association at electoral ward level between hospital admissions for falls and socio-economic deprivation, with higher rates in deprived areas. No such association was found for hip fracture. Further work is required to assess the impact of interventions on reducing inequalities in hospital admission rates for falls in elderly people.
Jitter is a sensitive measure of severity in MG and has a potential role as a biomarker in clinical trials and the clinic. Absolute or percentage change in mean jitter is the best jitter parameter to follow. The accuracy of change in jitter measured with other electrodes has yet to be determined. Muscle Nerve 56: 45-50, 2017.
Our data suggest an association of superior acetabular retroversion and increased superolateral femoral head coverage in SCFE. Whether this represents a primary abnormal morphology or a secondary pathologic response remains unclear. Further studies investigating the role of acetabular morphology in SCFE and its implications for development of symptomatic femoroacetabular impingement are warranted.
The influence of GH dose on height gain after puberty onset is at best a modest one. Cost analysis shows use of high doses of GH post-puberty onset has significant cost implications without providing a worthwhile gain in adult height for children with GH deficiency.
No significant difference was found in the anesthetic management between groups. The only difference was that the GSD patients required continuous glucose supply the night before the operation, while biliary atresia patients did not.
The results highlight the relevance of maternal feeding behavior on emotional eating in childhood. In terms of preventing weight-related problems, the findings indicate the necessity of training parents in allowing their children more control and avoiding the restriction of food.
The influenza vaccine shortage resulted in a small increase in concerns about influenza vaccine, even in a population with good access to vaccine and high vaccination rates. Vaccine availability updates should include reassurances of vaccine safety and efficacy.
No branches of the FTB are found in the interfascial (between the superficial and deep leaflet of the temporalis fascia) fat pad. The interfascial dissection can be safely performed without risk of injury to the FTB and potential subsequent frontalis palsy.
: There were several differences based on veteran status, including everyday functioning, health-related quality of life, cognitive performance, and current substance use.
The study suggests that social isolation and low societal participation are predictors of future disability pension. Social isolation and low societal participation increased particularly the risk of future disability pension in mental diagnoses among younger individuals.
Even though acculturation and family cohesiveness as schemas were not statistically significant because of small sample size, they highlight the importance of building more sophisticated models for testing their association with severity of diabetes.
This pilot study indicates that active promotion of water drinking increased consumption of water by secondary school students. Further developments of the project are suggested.
There is a strong association between the development of postoperative anterior thigh/groin pain and the amount of coronal curve correction, as well as the increase in lumbar lordosis.
The risks of the "noninvasive" bag urine culture appear to exceed its benefits.
Clinical evaluation and instrumental data suggested a possible link between fecal incontinence and abdominal hysterectomy in patients affected by descending perineum syndrome.
Our results indicate the identification of melamine-related stone by infrared spectroscopy could not use the infrared spectrum of melamine-contained mixtures as a reference.
RESULTS of this secondary data analysis suggest that gender might impact the antidepressant efficacy of SAMe, with greater therapeutic effect found in males. The underlying mechanism is still relatively unknown. Further work is needed to replicate this observation in independent samples.Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT00101452.
There is a gap between what residents prefer and what they expect from the residency, giving rise to dissatisfaction. This gap must be bridged to improve the quality of training received by these new physicians, their satisfaction and hence the delivery of health services to citizens.
Use of many stroke secondary prevention services was suboptimal. We did not find consistent age, sex, racial, or Stroke Belt state residence disparities in care.
Dental indifference was related to the OHQoL of prisoners in addition to previous regular use of dental services, a perceived need for treatment and use of dental services while in prison. Dental services in prisons might incorporate methods to address dental indifference in their attempts to improve oral health. The findings also have general implications for the assessment of population oral health needs.
In most patients receiving chemotherapy for colorectal LMs, a complete response on CT scan does not mean cure.
Making ethical decisions is not associated with higher burnout levels among professionals working in Portuguese palliative care teams. This can be explained by the interprofessional decision-making process followed by these teams, which promotes a sense of shared-decision and team-based empowerment; and by the advanced level of interdisciplinary education in palliative care that these professionals have.
In heart transplant recipients, the 6MWT is a safe, practical, and submaximal functional test. The distance-weight product can be used as an alternative method for assessing the functional capacity after heart transplantation but cannot totally replace maximal VO2 determination.
The results suggest the possibility that end-of-life decision-making is related to the care setting where people die. The study results seem to call for the development of good end-of-life care options and end-of-life communication guidelines in all settings.
Our study results showed that total knee arthroplasty under spinal anesthesia was not associated with mood changes in patients and no increase in postoperative pain was seen.
When recorded following a strictly defined protocol, MUCP at rest bladder filled has a good repeatability in individual. However a complex sequence of tests during urethral pressure profilometry remains discussed in middle-age and old age-groups, it allows specifying the stress component of incontinence in young women and the urgency component in all age-groups.
clinicians should consider increasing age as a specific risk factor in the management of COPD. Acute units and community teams should review carefully their protocols and pathways for how they assess, manage, discharge and follow-up older patients with COPD exacerbation.
The prolongation of capillary refill time is a poor predictor of the need for intravenous fluid bolus or hospital admission.
AGE modification of proteins leads to reduced solubility and high resistance to proteolytic digestion of such altered proteins (e.g. AGE-modified collagens). AGEs are also able to stimulate different kinds of cells via activation of the NFkappaB, mediated by specific receptors of AGEs (e.g. RAGE) on the cell surface. Both mechanisms may contribute to the development, perpetuation and spreading of pain phenomena in FM patients.
The authors would not recommend the use of this tool in patient counseling. If departments were considering its use, we would advise that a similar validating exercise be undertaken.
Fresh C. papaya leaf extract significantly increased the platelet and RBC counts in the test group as compared to controls. Therefore, it is very important to identify those chemicals of C. papaya leaves as it can be recommended to be used as a medication to boost thrombopoiesis and erythropoiesis in humans and in animals in which these cell lineages have been compromised.
Physicians perceived practice guidelines as externally imposed and cost-containment tools rather than as decision-supporting tools. Regularly monitoring attitudes toward practice guidelines can be helpful to evaluate potential barriers to their adoption.
In this large cluster-randomized trial, we demonstrated that universal decolonization with CHG bathing resulted in a significant reduction in blood culture contamination.
Because it increased the bond strength without compromising the properties of composite resins when photo-activated by an LED, PPD can be used as an alternative photo-initiator.
Despite differences in gastric emptying between disintegrating immediate-release and enteric-coated solid dosage forms, bioequivalence in pharmacokinetic studies was achieved.
Prophylactic resection is unlikely to prevent late major complications of diverticular disease; therefore, as an elective indication for surgery in this disease its use is questionable.
Although hospitals are required by NSW Health's Effective Discharge Policy to inform patients about their likely length of stay in hospital, not all patients recalled whether they were so informed pre-operatively. Barriers impeding realisation of the NSW Health policy remain.
Topiramate may have potential for the adjunctive treatment of depression in obese patients, but close monitoring of weight and adverse effects is warranted.
Phcy was not related to FV or FV and beans; this may be attributable to a low intake of these food groups.
Occurrence of hematoma in the epidural space is common after lumbar disc surgery even if meticulous hemostasis has been achieved. Insertion of a drain decreases both the incidence and the size of hematoma on the first postoperative day as detected by MRI. This may have practical implications for the prevention of significant postoperative fibrosis and obtaining better surgical outcome.
Providing information about the results of detailed assessment of physical functioning to older adults and their physicians did not show significant differences in function scores between the intervention and control groups.
Chromoendoscopy did not detect more adenomatous polyps in comparison to standard colonoscopy.
The presented data suggest possible protective effects of higher sCD36 concentration in relation to metabolic syndrome components in CAD patients. Higher sCD36 concentration is also associated with lower risk of left ventricular hypertrophy, but on the other hand is a potential risk factor of impaired left ventricle diastolic function.
Most instructors have positive attitudes, but training and work context can influence attitudes toward older people's participation in exercise classes both positively and negatively.
As an adjunct test to colposcopy, liquid cytology was similar to conventional cytology. Given current practice patterns, repeated liquid cytology at the time of colposcopy is rarely clinically useful.
BFP is the better choice for reconstruction in comparison to nasolabial flap.
The color change of the ceramics increased after the surface treatments, particularly as the ceramics became thinner.
We evidenced a possible predictive role of late FDG-PET/CT for the assessment of pathological response in locally advanced rectal cancer following neoadjuvant chemoradiation.
Participation in ERAS increased the number of applicants, but did not correlate with an increase in the quality of applicants.
Of the two MRA 'misses', neither would have resulted in different management. MRA is a safe and accurate modality for follow-up of coiled aneurysms and can replace DSA.
The exemplar PA promotion interventions evaluated appeared to be especially cost-effective for middle-aged adults. Prioritizing such efforts to this age group is a good use of societal resources.
Although patients with renal failure can be treated with a high procedural success rate in the new device era, they have an increased rate of major events both in hospital and at long-term follow-up. Nevertheless, utilization of stenting and debulking techniques improves immediate and long-term outcomes.
This evaluative review could not provide evidence to support the clinical use of sodium profiling in the population of patients on hemodialysis who are symptomatic. There remains a theoretical base for the use of sodium profiling, however further studies are needed providing consistency in methodology, looking not only at reduction in morbidity but effects on quality of life, long-term outcomes, and mortality.
The integrity of the lesser trochanter has no significant influence on the surgical outcome of intramedullary nail internal fixation of femoral intertrochanteric fractures.
A high-standard routine treatment focusing on the improvement of health behavior and including antidepressant and analgesic medication is equally effective as a short-term individual psychodynamic psychotherapy in improving fibromyalgia-related symptoms.
Relief of chronic pelvic pain symptoms, or lack of response, with preoperative hormonal therapy is not an accurate predictor of presence or absence of histologically confirmed endometriosis at laparoscopy. Patients with chronic pelvic pain may benefit from laparoscopy and no judgment regarding diagnosis should be made without this evaluation.
Registration of FDG-PET and planning CT images results in greater consistency in tumor volume delineation.
The use of Erich arch bars or interdental wire fixation to assist with MMF during the open reduction and internal fixation of noncomminuted mandibular angle fractures treated in Champy fashion is not always necessary for successful outcome.
Although the iPad potentially creates new opportunities for information sharing and patient engagement, the ward round may not present the most appropriate context for this to be done.
There is a lack of information on the handling of the fluoroscope in the area of pain treatment, and this usually leads to the adoption of insufficient radiation protection measures. The treatments are usually performed in the operating theatre. More than half the specialists perform less 10 procedures per week with x-rays. The control and follow-up of radiation values is insufficient, as is the information and protection offered to the patient.
HIV optimism remains a useful indicator of gay men's likelihood to take risk, but technical knowledge, experience, desire, and attitudes to risk may all affect how people respond and often in multiple, sometimes contradictory, directions. Men's beliefs about HIV transmission risk in particular may reflect willingness to pursue pleasure over risk, or, alternatively, morbid fear of any risk. Measures of HIV optimism should be complemented by analysis of the complexities of individuals' assessments of both risk and pleasure in specific sexual contexts.
In patients with poor VA despite resolved ME the inner retinal layers up to the ELM were significantly thinner, which could be a sign of atrophy. Qualitative differences were seen at the photoreceptor level, which could be explained by ischemia or an involvement of the outer retina during initial ME that leads to permanent destruction of the ISe.
Age is more strongly associated with IGT than with HOMA-IR or IFG in non-diabetic European populations.
The WHO growth charts may be appropriate for monitoring growth of French children, as the growth patterns in our large population of French children were closer to the WHO growth charts than to the French reference curves, from 6 months onwards. However, there were some limitations in the use of these WHO growth charts, and further investigation is needed.
Subclinical axonopathy in MSA is not frequent and is more pronounced in MSA with predominant parkinsonian signs. In MSA, neurogenic EMG abnormalities in muscles are more frequent than peripheral nerve lesions and as evidenced by increased motor unit potential amplitudes, could be considered a sign of anterior horn cell involvement and a hallmark of the "continuum" of neurodegeneration in MSA.
Comparable short-term results were achieved in both groups. We suggest that if the space is inadequate dorsally, then combined graft placement is another option.
Graduated driver licensing in Wisconsin has resulted in a drop in the general population crash rates for 16 and 17 year olds. This decrease is the result of reduced exposure to the risk of collision rather than safer driving by teens.
Non-susceptibility to cephalosporins and quinolones has declined among bloodstream Enterobacteriaceae in the UK, probably reflecting prescribing shifts. The penicillin/β-lactamase inhibitor combinations that have largely replaced cephalosporins and quinolones may add to selection for carbapenemase producers.
People whose mental health worsens after smoking cessation are at no greater risk of subsequent relapse to smoking than those whose mental health stays the same or improves.
The presence of hydronephrosis does not affect success rates and operative time in micro-PNL procedures significantly. Micropercutaneous nephrolithotomy is technically feasible and efficacious both in hydronephrotic and non-hydronephrotic kidneys.
Although dyslipidemia is closely associated with serum total protein, albumin and proteinuria in patients with PG, there is no clear such association in patients with systemic amyloidosis. Correlation between serum lipid and hemoglobin levels in this group and other findings point out that probably complex mechanisms take place in dyslipidemia of nephrotic syndrome caused by systemic AA amyloidosis.
A combination of MC and ACP in a single procedure was feasible in this first case series of patients without a significant extension of procedure time. However, it might be important to select patients carefully. The location of optimal transseptal puncture may be challenging in regard to ACP placement, even in experienced hands and subsequent complications can occur.
Online dating was not significantly associated with UAI among HIV-negative MSM. HIV-positive MSM were more likely to practise UAI with partners dated online; however, after correction for partner and partnership characteristics, online partnership acquisition was not associated with a significantly increased risk of UAI.
While there was near-universal interest in earlier pregnancy recognition, no single proposed intervention or scenario was endorsed by the majority. Improving sexual health awareness is an important consideration in future efforts to expedite pregnancy testing.
Our results indicate that warm and cold complex regional pain syndromes (CRPS) are associated with different clinical findings, beyond skin temperature changes. This might have implications for the understanding of CRPS pathophysiology.
An important direction for pediatric surgeons and their interdisciplinary teams may be to develop strategies to strengthen mothers' social relationships.
Extension of reversed sural island flap to the proximal third of the leg was safe and reliable. It was efficiently used to treat patients with large and far wounds, from the distal leg to the distal foot and the sole with more versatility and easier reach to the recipient site.
PCT values in CSF can be very helpful in distinguishing BM from VM and other noninfectious diseases.
Medical history and worse present medical status not only predicted worse physical parent-reported and self-reported health-related quality of life but also worse psychosocial health-related quality of life and subjective cognitive functioning. These findings will help in identifying patients who are at risk for developing impaired health-related quality of life.
LLT is associated with decreased VTE risk after adjusting for known risk factors.
Our results do not support the hypothesis that the presence of the PiMZ phenotype predisposes to more severe fibrosis in patients with hepatitis C.
Diagnosis of Leigh syndrome must be taken into consideration in infants presenting with a leukodystrophic clinical and radiological pattern, despite the lack of basal ganglia involvement.
The impact of triage is dependent on the level of demand and on the scale of achievable differences between included and excluded groups in terms of anticipated length of stay and critical care survival. It cannot be assumed that triage can or will result in fewer deaths. It should be remembered that there are considerations other than population-level short-term survival when determining the objectives of triage and its ethical implementation.
1. Operative complications occurred in about one third of the patients, being more frequently after the confection of ileal reservoir; 2. greater age and previous colonic carcinoma were associated with the development of rectal cancer after ileorectal anastomosis; 3. patients treated by restorative proctocolectomy are not free from the risk of pouch degeneration; 4. the disease complexity and the various risk factors (clinical, endoscopic, genetic) indicate that the best choice for operative treatment should be based on individual features discussed by a specialist; 5. all patients require continuous and long-term surveillance during postoperative follow-up.
Assessing CBF and DeltaCBV measured by near-infrared spectroscopy with two CPAP devices revealed no differences in relative blood volume, but CBF was lower with helmet CPAP. Greater active vasoconstriction and/or passive capillary and/or venous vessel compression seem the most likely reason, due to a positive pressure around the head, neck, and shoulders by comparison with the airway pressure.
Deciding on 'best quality' is subjective. While literature and guidelines provide clear parameters for many measures, others are difficult to judge. Overall, there was little difference between these two groups. This study has found little evidence to support the claim that computerisation of general practice in Australia has improved the quality of care provided to patients.
Failure of kissing stents in the aortic bifurcation may be significantly increased by the overlap of the free proximal stent ends in the distal aorta.
The results show that both readability and understanding can be improved by increased attention to the linguistic features of the information.
Vascularity itself or a combination of vascularity and gray-scale US features was not as useful as the use of suspicious gray-scale US features alone for predicting thyroid malignancy.
The clinical and laboratory investigations on the influence of hyperparathyroidism on DM support the benefit of parathyroidectomy in patients with DM. Patients with type 1 and type 2 DM show improvement in glucose control after parathyroidectomy. The presence of DM and hyperparathyroidism is an indication for parathyroidectomy because it results in either stabilization or improved glucose control in 77% of patients.
We may say that tissue healing with a desired and complete re-epithelialization could be achieved without inserting a catheter. Prevention of re-approximation along with the limited urinary extravasations to the subepithelial area might be responsible for tissue protection that will limit the long-term aforementioned adverse effects of the procedure.
Retroperitoneal lymph node dissection can be safely performed for metastatic transitional cell carcinoma. Retroperitoneal lymph node dissection has curative potential, particularly in patients with viable tumor in no more than 2 lymph nodes after chemotherapy.
Antepartum XRP is not necessary prior to a trial labour in women with one previous caesarean section. It increases the caesarean section rate and is a poor predictor of the outcome of labour.
Our finding suggests that there is no association between ACI and positive CP-IgG in Iranian patients.
Facilitated selection of formal mentors produced relationships similar to preexisting informal ones. This model may increase the prevalence of mentorship without decreasing quality.
One third of new referrals to general neurology clinics have symptoms that are poorly explained by identifiable organic disease. These patients were disabled and distressed. They deserve more attention.
Padded headgear does not reduce the rate of head injury or concussion. The low compliance rates are a limitation. Although individuals may choose to wear padded headgear, the routine or mandatory use of protective headgear cannot be recommended.
Failed IONM stimulation of the vagal or recurrent laryngeal nerve after resection of the first thyroid lobe is specific enough to reconsider the surgical strategy in patients with bilateral thyroid disease to surely prevent bilateral RLNP.
Early endoscopy in an emergency room did not improve the clinical outcome in our 81 consecutive patients with bleeding peptic ulcer.
Presentation of urachal remnants is variable but surgical outcomes remain excellent in our experience. When symptoms occur, the surgical decision is easy, but when the diagnosis is incidental, the decision is much more complicated. Official guidelines could ease the decision process and the management of urachal anomalies.
The addition of gum chewing to a standardized postoperative regimen did not reduce the period of postoperative ileus or shorten length of stay following open surgery for left-sided colorectal cancer.
Pelvic floor retraining may be useful in patients with defaecation disorders not associated with a high grade internal rectal prolapse. Patients with a high grade internal rectal prolapse may be considered for surgery from the outset.
Because of small populations in our study the results are not reproducible in alternate populations. Only the patient who is most unlikely to undergo optimal cytoreduction should be offered neoadjuvant chemotherapy, unless her medical condition renders her unsuitable for primary surgery.
This study provides some initial indication in a non-clinical sample that processing mode does not have the same differential affective impact when combined with a positive experience (e.g., success) as when combined with a negative experience (e.g., failure).
A significant proportion of trauma patients transferred to a regional trauma centre undergo CT scanning at the primary hospital. These patients experience an increased length-of-stay of 90 minutes, on average, before transfer. This appears to be a common practice that does not appear to contribute to definitive trauma management.
Our results do not support a role for exogenous hormone use by females in meningioma development. The risk in males was only observed with high-dose, short-term (<1 year) therapy.
Only a small number of DWI negative patients required ICU care. In patients without critical care needs by the end of thrombolysis, post-tPA MRI may be considered for triaging DWI negative patients to a less resource intense monitoring environment.
In patients selected for resection, size was not an independent risk factor for malignancy. While size might be appropriate for stratification of asymptomatic patients with simple cysts, size should not be used as a selection criterion for patients who have cysts with solid components or with associated BDD or PDD.
We present evidence that pollution with heavy metals will interfere with both the oxidative stress defence in plants, and with their ability to conjugate organic xenobiotics. Despite plant-species-dependent differences, the general reactions seem to include oxidative stress and an induction of antioxidative enzymes. Several processes seem to depend on direct binding of heavy metals to enzyme proteins, but effects on transcription are also observed. Induction of xenobiotic metabolism will be obtained at high heavy metal concentrations, when plant stress is elevated.
An ED may be used as a place for dying for some terminally ill patients. This could be related to the legal opposition to withdrawal or withholding of life-support therapies as well as the absence of guidelines from scientific bodies.
Only a small proportion of patients who are admitted with injuries are tested for substance use. The proportion of patients tested for drugs has decreased significantly during the past 6 years. Routine testing would maximize identification of patients who may benefit from interventions. Several obstacles exist to routine screening, including legal and physician-related barriers. Future efforts to facilitate routine testing of trauma patients for substance use should concentrate on protecting patient confidentiality and educating physicians on the techniques and benefits of brief interventions.
The increase of CAP rate indicates a worse quality of sleep in patients with FM. These data are strongly correlated to the severity of symptoms.
The clinical assessment agrees with the fluorescence data as no significant difference was seen between prepared and unprepared halves of the lesion 12 months after PDT. Overall our data seem to suggest that for most BCC and BD lesions, surface preparation did not increase ALA uptake.
Depression was found to be significantly associated with patients who rated their performance status as more impaired than with the oncologist-assessed score.
Visual acuity testing results by parents using the EVA are reliable. Electronic visual acuity prescreening by parents reduces the number of optotype presentations required to be shown by the technician to accurately determine acuity. Use of a parent-assisted screening system in the waiting room may translate to increased office efficiency.
The current findings suggest that posttraumatic symptoms and their associations with other adolescent mental health problems are not culture bound and that the psychological consequences of trauma follow similar dynamics cross-culturally.
The SCQ has sifted out one in four patients who previously DNA an initial dietetic outpatient appointment. This has reduced waiting-list time as appointments are only book on return on the SCQ form, increased effective use of dietetic time through increased attendance rates, and lowered the DNA rate of follow-up appointments.
By providing erroneous examples in combination with elaborated feedback in a computer-based learning environment, diagnostic knowledge was fostered. The approach of 'learning from worked examples' was successfully adapted to a complex domain and was found to support the acquisition of complex competencies.
The rate of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy is significantly lower in women having CVS compared with the control group. Placental disruption from CVS is not associated with preeclampsia or gestational hypertension.
Despite the perception of many patients that their thyroidectomy and thyroid hormone replacement or suppressive therapy is responsible for their subsequent weight gain, there were no significant differences in weight gain over time in comparison to a control group of euthyroid patients with thyroid nodules or goiter.
Few quality studies are available, and conclusions on the basis of these data need to be interpreted with caution. However, allowing clinicians to choose from a number of treatment techniques does not appear to have improved the outcomes of these RCTs that have investigated the effect of manual therapy for NSLBP. If tailoring manual therapy treatment to NSLBP patients does positively impact on patient outcomes, this is not yet systematically apparent.
Level II centers have a disproportionate number of high mortality outliers, and ACS verification is a predictor of survival. Level I ACS centers have lower O/E ratios overall, but no difference in outliers. ACS verification seems beneficial. These data suggest that Level II centers benefit most, and promoting Level II ACS verification may be an opportunity for improved outcomes.
The combined technique, improves the ID rate of SLNs in patients with breast cancer. The recurrence rate in the axilla was negligible and the metastasis-free rate was better in patients treated with SLNB alone, which further supports the concept that ALND has no clinical relevance and adds nothing more than morbidity to breast cancer patients with clinically node-negative disease.
This study shows that regular visits increases the number of ADRs reported by non-university hospitals. Further assessment of this procedure is necessary for long term evaluation of its effectiveness.
These findings provide insight regarding the current status of health promotion in megachurches. These large churches are a potential health promotion partner for researchers and practitioners for developing culturally tailored interventions.
Rising health care costs increased financial burden on families of CSHCN in 2001-2004. Public insurance coverage provided better financial protection than private insurance against the rapidly rising health care costs for families of CSHCN.
Considered radioprotection questions, RAI may solve (131)I uptaking LN metastases, above all if<10 mm. For larger LN metastases and in the case of failure of RAI surgical excision is mandatory, while a subsequent therapeutic dose of (131)I could be useful to reveal incomplete excision.
This study demonstrated no advantage to using slices below 5 mm thickness, and consequently thinner slices are not necessarily better.
These data suggest that familial aggregation of breast cancer is mainly due to heritable causes. Because the known susceptibility genes only explain about a quarter of the familial aggregation, the remaining majority offers a challenge to new genomic approaches.
Prompting patients assures better use of decision than communication aids. Clinicians may need to take a more active role to ensure patients receive adequate notes and recordings.
Most adult asthmatics are under the care of FDs; however, these appear to under-treat to a considerable degree, especially respecting the use of inhaled corticosteroids. It must be emphasised strongly that Asthma is an inflammatory disease; and FDs must become better informed of the directives of the international consensus on asthma.
The RA provides the same clinical and angiographic results both as aorto-coronary and composite Y-graft with the left ITA. When the RA is used as Y-graft the procedure is more technically demanding and a greater number of distal coronary anastomoses is possible. RA grafts to targets with stenosis<or = 70% appear to be at risk of failure.
NIRS appears to identify asphyxiated newborns at risk of developing brain injury as early as the first 10 hours of hypothermia treatment. Thus, NIRS may have an important role as an early outcome predictor in this population.
In this study, we demonstrated that LV diastolic functions are impaired in BD patients. Furthermore, P-wave abnormalities were demonstrated in BD patients and there was a significant correlation between PD and diastolic dysfunction.
Our analysis provides evidence of over represented GO terms in QTL regions. This increased GO term density indicates possible clustering of gene functions within QTL regions of the bovine genome. Genes with similar functions may be grouped in specific locales and could be contributing to QTL traits. Moreover, we have identified over-represented GO terminology that from a biological standpoint, makes sense with respect to QTL category type.
Women with GDM are shorter than glucose-tolerant women and have a lower leg-to-height percentage. Consideration of short stature as a risk factor for GDM is not valid without taking into account the leg-to-height percentage.
Young women with ACS report significantly poorer HRQL than young men. Gender appears to be more important than sex in predicting long-term HRQL post-ACS. Specific gender-related factors, such as social support, may be amenable to interventions and could improve the HRQL of patients with premature ACS.
We concluded that bladder pressure measured by transurethral catheter was equal to insufflator pressure during laparoscopy, and that this was a valid indicator of intra-abdominal pressure.
Pregnancies complicated by HG had a similar risk of twin pregnancy, and a lower risk of early pregnancy failure compared to controls. In the absence of vaginal bleeding, there was no increase in GTD in women with HG. We conclude that an ultrasound scan is not clinically necessary in women presenting with HG, other than for maternal reassurance.
Training experiences, especially induced abortion training, are associated with the use of office uterine evacuation for EPF.
The procedural time of ESD with a Flex knife for EGC can be predicted by tumor size, location, and existence of ulcerative findings. The estimation of procedural time may be very useful to determine the operation schedule.
Increasing the number of retrieved and mature oocytes may increase the success of fertilization in patients with a history of previous failed fertilization. However, live birth rate is still low in embryo transfer cycles.
In our experience, injections of pure ethanol in renal cysts, repeated after some days, were effective in eliminating recurrences and related symptoms. The procedure was not associated with significant complications. Our findings suggest that it be considered the first-choice procedure in the treatment of renal cysts, due to the good results and the low cost of ethanol.
Curcumin is an effective treatment for experimentally induced allergic rhinitis in rats.
While practitioners accepted the ideology of patient-centred care the biomedical approach had the advantage of providing practitioners with a professional identity, which protected their status in relation to patients and colleagues.
Mild COPD may not affect survival or personal independence of patients over 65 years of age if the reference group consists of patients with a comparable burden of non respiratory diseases. Comorbidity and age itself likely are main determinants of both outcomes.
Our study has shown high prevalence of increased plasma concentrations in the total, LDL-cholesterol and triglycerides and low plasma concentrations of HDL-cholesterol, as well as the insufficient use of lipid-lowering drugs in diabetic and non-diabetic patients with previous MI. Decreasing the total cholesterol and increasing the HDL-cholesterol are significant, decreasing of triglycerides and LDL-cholesterol does not suffice. Therefore, secondary prevention measures of cardiovascular events should be intensified, especially in patients with diabetes.
Both the D-GW and P-GW techniques were equally effective for difficult biliary cannulation. Furthermore, the complication rates, including PEP, were similar in both techniques. A prospective randomized trial is warranted.
Dosing biases do not seem to have affected the results of the CATIE trial.
Inflammation increases the incidence of hypoalbuminemia and hypocholesterolemia, potentially leading to overdiagnosis of malnutrition. We suggest that albumin, cholesterol, prealbumin, and transferrin be used with caution when assessing the nutritional status of older hospitalized patients. In the future, soluble IL-2 receptor levels might be used to correct for the impact of inflammation on these markers of malnutrition.
Variations in pelvic geometry and hip anatomy are associated with the severity of knee OA. People with NSA of above 134.4° have eightfold increased risk of developing severe knee OA. Pelvic radiographies could be evaluated at younger ages-particularly in people with high genetic predispositions-to identify the individuals at high risk and in turn, to tailor the preventive measures to these subjects.
These population-based findings provide evidence of a decline in the underlying rate of CSA in Australia. Although every measure of CSA inevitably is flawed to some extent, these trends in self-report complement official statistics that show substantial decline in recent years.
Since the difference in endothelin levels is not remarkable, it seems unlikely that increased intrarenal production of endothelin plays a role in the maintenance of hypertension in SHR by modulating the pressure-natriuresis curve.
Statins are well tolerated without unexpected adverse events. However, more research is needed to determine whether statins are effective for AD with vascular risk factors.
Among clinically node-negative patients with abnormal axillary imaging, 71% did not meet criteria for ALND and were spared further surgical morbidity. Abnormal nodes on US, MRI, or mammogram in clinically node-negative patients are not reliable indicators of the need for ALND.
TO, a parameter of HRT, may be useful in the distinction and confirmation of severe symptoms in MS, and may aid in determining the need for mechanical relief of MS, which is especially difficult when discrepancies occur between echocardiographic findings and symptoms.
Avoiding cardiopulmonary bypass in fenestrated extracardiac total cavopulmonary connection had no direct effect on the early outcome variables.
Most patients with IPLS are treated without a definitive imaging diagnosis. This lack of diagnosis may result in the overtreatment of patients who do not have acute PE or, more importantly, in the undertreatment of patients who do have acute PE. Further studies are necessary to evaluate the impact of the current management strategies on patient outcome.
Overall, DS and SPS patients had similar baseline characteristics. However, DS patients improved more with surgery than SPS patients. Future studies should probably not combine these heterogeneous patient populations.
The contribution of home spirometry in the diagnostic process for asthma in schoolchildren with nonspecific respiratory symptoms is limited.
The majority of EMS systems surveyed have adopted formal policies to guide field personnel in the management of patient refusals. Fewer than a third of these policies contain all of the elements shown to be protective against legal challenge.
Our systematic review and meta analysis favor the abandonment of T-tubes in orthotopic liver transplantation.
While the majority of high school students do not become regular smokers after initiating smoking, earlier initiation of smoking is associated with subsequent regular smoking irrespective of sex or race/ethnicity. These findings have potentially important implications for intervention targeting.
In contrast to what has been believed so far, full-mouth tooth extraction does not result in eradication of all periodontopathogens but only in a significant reduction. The clinical consequences of this observation remain speculative.
The findings from this population-based retrospective cohort study suggest that schizophrenia is associated with a 25% increase in the risk of developing CKD within only a 3-year follow-up period.
A range of alcohol consumption, not just heavy drinking, may be associated with major depression and suicidality.
Cold incision of the DVC before suture ligation reduces the rate of apical margin involvement during robot-assisted radical prostatectomy.
Asymptomatic cystic lung malformations represent a therapeutic dilemma. In this cohort, the incidence of PPB among apparently benign lung lesions was 4%. No clinical or radiological markers differentiated benign CCAMs from PPBs. Our experience provides further justification for resection of all CCAMs. This should be discussed with parents until CCAMs and PPBs can be clearly distinguished preoperatively.
aMDRD equation to estimate GFR is more precise than Cockroft-Gault formula and cystatin C in living kidney donors after nephrectomy and should be preferred model in these patients.
Patients suffered neurological deterioration in case of abolishment or>50% irreversible attenuation of the waveform in transcranial motor-evoked potentials. All patients gradually recovered after 1 postoperative month with alarm criteria from 50% to 80% irreversible amplitude drop on transcranial motor-evoked potentials.
The presence of thyroid peroxidase antibodies does not appear to correlate with cardiovascular disease risk in patients with subclinical hypothyroidism. This study does not support the measurement of TPOAb antibodies in SCH as a strategy for guiding treatment or assessment of cardiovascular disease risk.
In this study, DS beneath maxillary CDs did not differ between mandibular distal extension RPD and CD wearers. The presence of mandibular anterior teeth did not influence the occurrence of palatal DS.
Differences in recidivism rates occurred in spite of the fact that most of these youngsters had been in the standard treatment programme offered to serious juvenile offenders in the Netherlands. This was not a treatment outcome study, but the indication that two of the groups identified in our study appeared to be worse after going through this programme, whereas the other two did quite well in terms of recidivism lends weight to our idea that such classification of juvenile offenders may lead to more targeted treatment programmes that would better serve both the general public and the youths concerned.
Apoptosis does not appear to be an important component of myocardial remodeling in SHHF rats during hypertrophy or end-stage heart failure. Examination of myocyte nuclear structure by high-resolution microscopy of optimally fixed tissues is recommended as an alternative approach to study apoptosis.
These human observations agree with animal data which showed that nicotine can decrease neuroleptic-induced D2 receptor upregulation. This property of nicotine may play a protective role in movement disorders whose pathophysiology involves D2 receptor hypersensitivity.
Differences between practices by male and female doctors are confirmed, but not the differences in general satisfaction with the service received.
These results, which may not be generalizable beyond Florida and Washington or to other health indicators, suggest that some previously reported associations between neighborhood characteristics and the selected health indicators may reflect residual confounding by individual-level socioeconomic status/position. Until methodological and conceptual challenges regarding mediation ("over-controlling") and measurement of neighborhood exposure are overcome, conclusions regarding independent neighborhood associations should be made with caution.
Non-patient factors affect the nurses' assessments of their workload, but less than nursing care intensity. They contribute valuable information on the functioning and problems of wards.
Public health ethical frameworks may be supportive in the evaluation of overweight prevention programs or policy, but seem to lack practical guidance to address ethical conflicts in this particular area.
Neither the TEP or LHR technique had any decreasing effect on blood flow.
There may be a relationship between some preinjury job perceptions and intent to return to the preinjury type of work in some groups of CPPs. However, a specific relationship between WC status, intent not to return to the preinjury type of work, and preinjury job perceptions in comparison to NWC CPPs could not be demonstrated.
A putative human homologue of murine PIF and its role in human cancer cachexia cannot be verified.
The current Rome III criteria for functional dyspepsia dose not adequately identify a large proportion of Japanese dyspeptic patients, primarily due to earlier presentation for medical evaluation. Therefore, the 6-month period after onset of dyspeptic symptoms should be shortened at least in the Japanese population experiencing dyspeptic symptoms.
MSUS use as a routine component of assessment in an early arthritis clinic did not add substantial discriminatory value to a risk metric for predicting PIA.
The spondylolytic defect in pars interarticularis does not cause permanent instability/hypermobility detectable in the adult patient with low back pain and low-grade olisthesis.
In addition to muscle proteolysis, other ATP-related pathways may have a key role in muscle wasting, both directly by increasing energetic inefficiency, and indirectly, by affecting the sarcoplasmic reticulum-mitochondrial assembly that is essential for muscle function and homeostasis.
Thiel's embalming technique is not widely known, and therefore, little used. The main obstacle to its wider use is likely the language barrier, since most of the publications describing Thiel's method are in German, which is not widely spoken outside of a few European countries.
The results suggest that the relation of self-reported health to objective health, as measured by biological risk factors, differs by socioeconomic status. Caution should be exercised when using SRH to compare health risks across SES groups.
Blood phenylalanine control within the first 3 years of age, poor parental educational achievement at school level, and unsatisfactory maternal dietary knowledge may all influence longer-term blood phenylalanine control in children.
Patients perceive the cosmetic results after CLC as excellent. Therefore, SPLC seems to have a limited role in terms of improving cosmesis for patients undergoing cholecystectomy. Anecdotal evidence from the questionnaire suggests that the umbilical port may be the site of problems for some patients. Further investigation is needed to determine whether this is significant, especially because it may be exaggerated after SPLC.
The marked tendency for further QT prolongation nighttime, which clearly increases arrhythmic risk, present among LQT3 patients and absent among LQT1 patients, provides an explanation for the gene-specific higher risk for sudden death during sleep for LQT3 compared to LQT1 patients.
These results suggest that at highly experienced centres, elective PCI of the non-bifurcational LMCA can be performed safely where the anatomy is suitable.
These findings suggest that although positive health behaviors appear to be inversely related to abusable substance use in urban, African-American preadolescents, the relationship may be spurious.
We concluded that isolating a single parameter like zBMI change and neglecting other important outcomes is restrictive and may undermine the evaluation of childhood obesity intervention effectiveness.
Laparoscopic IHR is performed faster by staff surgeons without residents. There was no difference in the complication rate when residents were involved. Teaching and mentoring residents in the OR for laparoscopic IHR is safe and laudable.
Repeat testing in late pregnancy would appear an unnecessary expense in our population.
Unenhanced T1-weighted MR images are highly sensitive for neoplastic infiltration of the preepiglottic space in patients with oropharyngeal and supraglottic laryngeal carcinoma who are at risk for such spread. Identification of PEF invasion is important because it affects prognosis and may affect surgical management.
The study does not support one of the fundamental theoretical assumptions behind the municipal co-financing introduced in the 2007 structural reform in Denmark. While the study failed to establish systematic links between municipal public health efforts and hospitalisation levels, it appears from other studies that municipalities are in fact increasing their activities in public health. This presents a theoretical puzzle and we present several possible explanations for further empirical work.
Smoking and asbestos exposure should be taken into account in future studies of gemcitabine pulmonary toxicity.
Apart from episode severity, social isolation - associated with younger age, single marital status and social phobia - seems to make a contribution to the origin of manic psychosis largely independent from such severity.
These preliminary data suggest a possible role of HA in reducing BCG local side effects and could be used to design larger randomized controlled trials, assessing safety and efficacy of sequential BCG and HA administration.
Both innate psychomotor ability and motivation showed only weak positive associations with dental performance on cavity preparation exercises. Our study suggests that student-related factors only provide limited information to explain differences in performance or to be useful as specific predictors of future performance by individuals.
The results of this study suggest that patients with isolated office hypertension should not be considered as truly normotensive individuals. Hence, these patients require a careful medical follow-up. Office blood pressure readings alone, however, do not appear to provide a good indicator of the long-term outcome of isolated office hypertension.
The FEHBP is not a perfect predictor of MA plan activity because the MA program does not use the FEHBP approach of certifying regional plans that must offer local access. However, the FEHBP experience indicates that plans are attracted to areas with high population counts and high population density.
Compared with injections, delivery of myoblasts in a construct overlaying the infarcted area is associated with better graft functionality, possibly because of maintenance of improved cell patterning. The cell-seeded Gelfoam construct was found to feature a user-friendly, reproducible, and atraumatic technique.
Risk framing affects how respondents value the presented risk. Positive risk framing led to increased dominant decision-making behavior, whereas negative risk framing led to risk-seeking behavior. Attribute framing should have a prominent part in the expert and focus group interviews, and different types of framing should be used in the pilot version of DCEs as well as in actual DCEs to estimate the magnitude of the effect of choosing different types of framing.
Despite a well-performing TB control programme in the CPY, the number of undetected PTB cases remains unacceptably high. It is doubtful whether TB transmission can be controlled under conditions of confinement, such as the CPY.
In our experience, surgeon's opinion is not an accurate tool to predict the outcome of endoscopic treatment of VUR.
Bacterial colonization of cervix in particular with ureaplasma and/or mycoplasma is found to be strongly associated with placenta previa. Before a planned pregnancy, treatment of this infection with appropriate antibiotics is necessary to prevent underlying uterine endometritis that increases the risk for abnormal implantation of placenta.
The standard SF-12 was valid and equivalent for the Chinese, which would enable more Chinese to be included in clinical trials that measure HRQoL.
Our findings suggest that the receipt of unemployment benefits confers a protective effect on health behavioural changes following periods of unemployment. These findings underscore the need to monitor the impact of unemployment assistance programs on health, particularly in light of the rapidly changing structure of employment and unemployment benefits.
The incorporation of specific, objective discharge criteria (i.e., UMSS score of 0 or 1, MMWT duration>/= 20 min) may ensure a status closer to baseline (BIS value>/= 90) compared with nursing judgment using standard criteria. However, such assurance may delay the discharge of sedated children.
SSTRs are overexpressed in PPNAD tissues in comparison with normal adrenal cortex. Octreotide did not exert any significant effect on cortisol secretion in a short clinical pilot study in a small number of patients with PPNAD, but long-acting SST analogs targeting multiple SSTRs may be worth investigating in this condition.
The difficulties in maintaining the static position in elderly seems dependent on the reduced initial decrease in force variability and/or musculoskeletal components. We suggest that the first 5 s are crucial when assessing balance during one-leg stance.
The majority of migraine patients need long-term prophylactic treatment. The patients who respond by 3 months of treatment are more likely to have long-term remission.
Previous research shows numerous problems associated with substance use in young adults, including problems in school, decreased employment, increases in convictions of driving under the influence (DUI) and accidental deaths. Much of the previous literature is focused on lower SES populations. Therefore, it is possible that teachers, parents and school administrators in wealthier schools may not perceive as great to address substance abuse treatment in their schools. This study can inform teachers, parents, school administrators and program officials of the need for addressing drug abuse prevention activities to this population of students.
In infants, mucolytics agents efficacy has never been demonstrated and some elements suggest poor safety (paradoxical bronchial congestion).
Our results show that CT can be used to distinguish idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis from hypersensitivity pneumonitis in most but not all cases. Desquamative interstitial pneumonia cannot reliably be distinguished from acute or subacute hypersensitivity pneumonitis. Chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis may have findings identical to those of usual interstitial pneumonia. Lung biopsy should still be considered the gold standard for diagnosis of interstitial lung disease.
TOTs for proper names may effectively discriminate aMCI patients from normal controls through measures that represent one of the naming processes affected, that is, phonological access.
Higher SUA levels are associated with increased frequency and risk of gout episode, and with higher total and gout-related direct healthcare costs per episode.
Among patients with an undetectable viral load, having previously interrupted therapy while the viral load was detectable is associated with a raised risk of rebound.
Our data demonstrate that the inflammatory process observed in active celiac disease is associated with high serum levels of IL-1beta and IL-6 and normal levels of IL-1-RA. Treatment significantly reduces both proinflammatory cytokines and significantly increases the antiinflammatory one. We also suggest that these cytokines might have a role in the osteopenia associated with celiac disease.
Long-term survival is possible for a subset of patients after an R2 resection for RPS, especially with favorable histology characteristics. Benefits of chemotherapy in margin positive settings need to be investigated. J. Surg. Oncol. 2016;113:823-827. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
In patients with MS, long-term exercise intervention does not improve HR changes during exercise, despite improvements in exercise tolerance, indicating that cardiac autonomic control during exercise is not easily improved by exercise intervention in patients with MS.
A more detailed grid-based area classification is better for showing spatial differences in the care of type 2 diabetes patients. Inequalities exist but it would be misleading to state that the differences are simply due to urban or rural location or due to distance. From a planning point of view findings suggest that detailed geo-coded patient information could be utilized more in resourcing and targeting the health care services to find the area-level needs of care and to improve the cost-efficient allocation of resources.
In our study population, BKDVT was associated with a higher rate of PE compared with AKDVT, which was likely secondary to the treatment of AKDVT. Because BKDVT progressed to AKDVT or PE in 1 of 8 patients, BKDVT should not be ignored in trauma patients. Aggressive chemical prophylaxis and perhaps therapeutic anticoagulation or IVCF should be considered in patients with BKDVT. Further investigation is warranted to confirm these conclusions.
Report cards are more effective if nursing homes' participation is mandated. Nonmandatory reporting systems, as those implemented by some states and professional associations, lead to missed opportunities for quality improvements.
TCSO combined with orbital osteotomy improves exposure. Removing the orbital rim and roof increases the area for instrument use and improves the vertical angle of attack to common sites in the anterior circulation involving aneurysms.
The sex of the practitioner did not significantly influence patient responses to sensitive questions about their sexual behaviour.
Mesenteric panniculitis is often associated with an underlying malignancy. In most cases, malignancy is diagnosed before mesenteric panniculitis. Lymph node size (>12 mm) and the absence of the fat ring sign were identified as predictors of subsequent diagnosis of malignancy in patients with mesenteric panniculitis. Identification of mesenteric panniculitis on imaging should prompt an awareness for possible malignancy in these patients.
Clinicians may miss a substantial portion of AIP patients who may benefit from steroid therapy when the diagnosis is confined to those who satisfy the criteria proposed by the Japan Pancreas Society. It is necessary to convene a worldwide consensus to develop an improved diagnostic criteria for AIP.
Not ligating distal stump is a feasible approach for managing CDC with stenotic distal CBD. It simplifies the operative procedure and may minimize pancreatic duct injury.
Given its importance as a source of physical activity for some children, researchers should consider assessment of public transit-related activity in physical activity measurement instruments. Efforts to encourage active travel should consider how to incorporate transit-related activity, both from a measurement perspective and as an intervention strategy.
A greater tendency to DGF, early rejection and tract complications were found in the group with longer ischemia time, although the difference was not statistically significant. Larger series will be necessary to confirm our results.
These findings support the hypothesis that clusters of symptoms of many Gulf War veterans represent discrete factor analysis-derived syndromes that appear to reflect a spectrum of neurologic injury involving the central, peripheral, and autonomic nervous systems.
Even in patients older than 75 years, recent surgical results of conventional open arch repair were acceptable, especially in elective cases. Thus, conventional open surgical aortic arch replacement remains a good option, especially in patients with preserved renal function.
Certification did not reduce the risk of work injury among experienced tree-fallers in the province of British Columbia. Non-statistically significant increases in the observed risk of work injury in the months immediately following certification may be attributable to an intervention effect or a methodological limitation related to a lack of individual-level, time-at-risk exposure data.
Younger women with elevated day 3 FSH represent comparable reproductive outcomes in GS-IUI cycles to those with normal FSH levels, although they may require longer periods of stimulation and are at higher risk of cycle cancellation. Thus, GS-IUI could be a possible treatment option in this patient group and should not be neglected.
Use of SP for malaria treatment is common during pregnancy. This may be contributing to adverse pregnancy outcomes. Antenatal care providers should endeavour to emphasize the distinction between treatment and prevention of malaria during pregnancy.
The presence of glucose in the dialysate guarantees the normal activity of the HMP cycle, which provides the production of reductive equivalents for the regeneration of reduced GSH - free radicals scavenger - and therefore the limitation of oxidative stress.
The decrease in the T 1/2 and T lag suggests the acceleration of gastric emptying. This study showed that postprandial coffee intake enhances gastric emptying, suggesting the potential use of coffee in clinical settings for patients with functional gastrointestinal disorders.
This study finds the specific effects of beer, wine or spirits to moderately diverge in the socio-economic groups. Future studies addressing the association between the type of beverage and mortality may need to more thoroughly take socio-economic factors into account.
Orthopaedic trauma surgeons showed deterioration in performance on a validated cognitive task when they had slept four hours or less the previous night. It is unknown how performance on this test relates to surgical performance.
Our findings suggest that the most relevant dimensions of personality pathology are associated with very different clinical consequences and levels of harmfulness.
Despite educating payers on the increased complexity and time needed to deal with morbidly obese patients with acetabular fractures, we have not seen an increased reimbursement in this challenging patient population. This could be a disincentive for many centers to treat these challenging injuries. Further efforts are needed to convince government payer sources to increase compensation in these situations.
Despite evidence of benefits from randomized trials, the overall provision of cardiac rehabilitation in Scotland was low. Considerable inequity was demonstrated between different health board areas. There is opportunity for better provision, which would improve care for many patients with coronary heart disease.
Based on our findings, we conclude that the bladder does appear to be an "unreliable witness" in elderly men for the diagnosis of bladder outlet obstruction, though this is less so with impaired detrusor contractility. No conclusion can be drawn for the detrusor instability as we did not use ambulatory urodynamic studies.
These study results demonstrate that milk synthesis differs in each mammary lobe, even in the same breast. The degree of fullness in each mammary lobe seems to play the most important role in the fat content. The protein content in the milk from each mammary lobe is determined by other factors, presumably by the feedback inhibitor of lactation, accumulated in the corresponding mammary lobe.
The limited performance of the simple risk index highlights the limitations of applying prognostic models derived in RCT populations to the general population of patients 65 years and older. Prognostic scores must be validated in community-based cohorts before integration into clinical practice.
The similarities in hepatic histology and cytochrome P450 2E1 induction between this nutritional model of hepatic steatohepatitis and alcoholic steatohepatitis imply that these two disorders share pathogenetic mechanisms. However, liver regeneration is not altered by NASH in rats, indicating that the nutritional and inflammatory changes that appear similar to those of alcoholic liver disease do not cause impairment of liver regeneration.
Supplying homeless individuals with permanent housing is an effective measure but insufficient for improving mental illness. Combined measures of social and medical interventions from one provider are suggested for effective support of homeless people.
Physicians are not fully responsive to patient preferences regarding either the degree of communication or the patient's participation in decision making. Barriers to participation can be a problem, and should be taken into account more often when dealing with hospitalised elderly people.
The health composition of the unemployment population changes significantly for the better, but only in those European countries that have been severely hit by the current economic crisis.
Unused medicines are returned in substantial quantities and have considerable financial value, with many in a condition suitable for re-use. We consider it appropriate to reopen the debate on the potential for re-using these medicines in developing countries where medicines are not widely available and also within the UK.
Heavier women do not benefit from a higher dose of LA depot (7.5 vs. 3.75 mg) for suppression of serum levels of estradiol.
The CB is a decreasing but still frequent autopsy-finding. We consider high blood pressure, COPD and male sex as the main risk factors. The decrease in frequency of CB and the increase in age at death might be interpreted as the effect of a successful application of new therapeutic standards in the last two decades (ACE-inhibitors, beta blockers, statins, PTCA, surgical heart interventions).
Bacterial component(s) other than ETX per se induces the sustained dysfunction in PM luminal diameter capacity to produce proinflammatory cytokines during sepsis and/or peritonitis. Thus, agents directed against ETX alone may not be adequate in the treatment of polymicrobial sepsis.
The incidence of BV in this study was lower than that described in other populations. No clinical complications occurred among the BV-positive women. Screening for BV prior to IUD insertion is neither currently recommended, nor supported by our study findings.
A positive result with 2-mm punch biopsy is a safe indication for surgical excision of the tumor, whereas a negative result does not necessarily imply benignity. In cases of high clinical suspicion, a second biopsy should be taken from a different part of the tumor to rule out malignancy.
Femoral insufficiency fractures after prolonged bisphosphonate therapy seldom healed spontaneously and most patients had surgery either for fracture displacement or persistent pain.
The high percentage loss of information was mainly due to the specialist and, secondly, to the route taken and patient. We recommended the introduction of internal mail between both levels and a study of the attitudes and expectations of the professionals concerned in order to improve the interrelationship and quality of health provision.
Algo guides non-OTs toward a bath seat that meets the needs of community-dwelling older adults in the majority of cases.
Variant hepatic artery anatomy in a liver transplant recipient increased the risk of hepatic artery complications after transplantation. The smaller caliber of the native common hepatic artery may contribute to the higher risk.
The results of the current study demonstrated a counteractive Th1 and Th2 cytokine interaction between H. pylori infection and atopy. However, this counteractive immunologic balance did not protect against atopy.
I mmediate surgery can be recommended if the general condition of the patient warrants surgical intervention. Using accepted standards of documentation for SCI, a clear perspective of the results that can be expected is provided. Comparing the results of this study with the current literature there is no evidence that anterior approaches are superior.
Based on our clinical experience of using small-bore catheters, we believe that they are potentially effective for almost all pleural pathologies. Our results concur with those in the literature, but this series also includes different pleural diseases requiring chest tube insertion.
Using quantitative sensory thermal testing, we demonstrated that no significant differences in pain occur between different races and genders.
Various aspects of primary care are associated with ADR-related hospital episodes, including achievement of particular QOF indicators. Further investigation with individual level data would help develop understanding of the associations identified. Interventions in primary care could help reduce the ADR burden. ADRs are candidates for primary care sensitive conditions.
Although collateral report has an important role for diagnosing attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder in children, it has no incremental value in the evaluation of childhood attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder symptoms in adults with a self-reported history of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder assessed in clinical settings.
Mediastinal nodal dissection would be unnecessary in the patients with peripheral small-sized lung cancer fulfilling these criteria: (1) squamous cell carcinoma<or = 2 cm; (2) adenocarcinoma<or = 1 cm; (3) localized bronchioloalveolar carcinoma<or = 2 cm without foci of active fibroblastic proliferation in histology (Noguchi's classification type A or B adenocarcinoma); (4) small cell carcinoma<or = 1 cm. Candidates fulfilling above criteria were 28.4% (64/225) of small-sized lung cancer and 10.9% of stage IA patients. The establishment of a universally accepted therapeutic strategy for small-sized lung cancer is indispensable in the clinical spread of various sort of limited resections.
Smog advisories were partially successful in generating awareness, but only marginally effective in promoting action.
Our study concluded that the hopelessness level of women had an effect on their thoughts about cervical cancer prevention and early diagnosis.
ANV in pediatric patients showed features of a CR. Immune parameters were sensitive to the CS content of the environment, predominantly in patients with ANV. This is consistent with the manifestation of multiple CRs.
Distal femoral joint showing less valgus significantly contributes to the deformity in varus gonarthrosis, also a very important contributor to the deformity. Abnormal forces applied to ankle may cause collapse in distal lateral tibial metaphysis and decrease LDTA in varus knees. Medial neck shaft angle may decrease due to possible abnormal loading angles to the femoral neck in some individuals with varus gonarthrosis.
In selected patients with a posterior or parapelvic renal cyst and ipsilateral calculi, the percutaneous technique is a safe and effective option through intermediate follow-up.
Covered stents may improve patency but do not mitigate postshunt hepatic dysfunction and do not improve survival.
Low socioeconomic status remains a significant predictor of CHD among people aged>or=65 years. Healthcare policies among elderly patients should encourage physical activity and smoking cessation in all socioeconomic groups.
Physical activity may reduce the risk of secondary CVD events, in part, by improving metabolic and inflammatory risk markers.
There were large differences in the prevalence of abnormal results (NNSAR) and cost-effectiveness (DCSAR) for the laboratory tests routinely performed among newly admitted psychiatric patients.
Receiving guidelines led to improvements in the process of care of infertile couples within general practice. This effect was enhanced when the guidelines were embedded in a structured infertility management sheet for each couple.
Most women undergoing see-and-treat for HSIL cytology will have CIN3 on final histology. In this large cohort, women aged 21 to 24 did not have lower rates of CIN3 compared with women aged 25 and older, suggesting that see-and-treat is still a valid treatment option for the prevention of invasive disease in young women.
For prehospital treatment of anaphylaxis, we recommend the use of EpiPen and EpiPen Jr autoinjectors that are not outdated. If, however, the only autoinjector available is an outdated one, it could be used as long as no discoloration or precipitates are apparent because the potential benefit of using it is greater than the potential risk of a suboptimal epinephrine dose or of no epinephrine treatment at all.
Patients bleeding excessively in the ICU had abnormal measurements in point-of-care tests without a dramatic decrease in aggregation. Except for patients with increased risk of postbypass bleeding, point-of-care tests are not useful for routine use after cardiac surgery.
This research revealed that few clinical features of lumbar hernias in South Korea differ from those reported in foreign literature. Thirteen cases were analyzed in the present study, and results obtained from such a small sample size cannot be generalized with certainty. Therefore, more cases should be collected for a definitive analysis. Despite this limitation, this study is important because it is the first attempt to collect and analyze the clinical features of lumbar hernia in South Korea. This study will serve as a basis for future studies investigating the clinical features of lumbar hernia cases in South Korea.
The results of this small series suggest that coital incontinence is likely to be cured or improved when stress incontinence has been successfully treated by Burch colposuspension.
Further studies are needed to elucidate whether low folate levels can be considered a risk factor for SSHL.
The results of this study suggest that for infrainguinal bypass grafting where the saphenous vein is unavailable, a composite PTFE-vein graft might be an acceptable alternative in limbs with good run-off. Although not a randomised study, the results using a distal reversed vein segment of a cuff were similar.
Patients did not seem concerned about the age of their doctor as long as he or she was of an age normally practising in the United Kingdom (27-65 years). They had some stereotyped views on the characteristics of older and younger doctors, but these were not held particularly strongly. Patients appeared to want a balance with the doctor being experienced and being up to date.
Our study indicated that urinary sFas assay results may help identify NMIBC patients at risk of tumor recurrence. These data can be used to design a future follow-up schedule and treatment strategy for NMIBC patients.
The WHO guidelines were only partially implemented, with significant differences between hospitals in level of implementation of recommended practices. Given the benefits expected from the application of the guidelines, efforts should be made for the establishment and promotion of a single national policy for LBW feeding that follows the WHO new guidelines and streamlines the LBW feeding practices across the country.
This indicative evaluation suggests that the BBBS program represents excellent 'value for money'.
Random forests are generally capable of capturing gene-gene interactions, but current variable importance measures are unable to detect them as interactions. In most of the cases, interactions are masked by marginal effects and interactions cannot be differentiated from marginal effects. Consequently, caution is warranted when claiming that random forests uncover interactions.
Chronic eye surface injury associated with LS may promote autoimmunization against ocular epithelial BMZ antigens, playing a strategic role in the subsequent onset of OMMP. The occurrence of OMMP after LS could be an occasional finding, or conversely, LS could be an underestimated predisposing factor in the development of OMMP.
In polycystic ovary syndrome, although obesity and hirsutism vary according to dietary, genetic, and environmental factors, the prevalence of adrenal androgen excess and insulin resistance appear to be fairly uniform. These results suggest that these factors may be involved in the pathophysiologic features of the disorder.
EpSSG guidelines and RECIST are not interchangeable; neither technique demonstrated superiority in this study. These findings should be taken into account in future study protocol design. Online supplemental material is available for this article.
Stroke survivors who are treated early after stroke onset may experience greater benefit from intramuscular electrical stimulation for poststroke shoulder pain. However, the relative importance of time from stroke onset versus duration of pain is not known.
Adolescents with asthma are at increased risk for being victims of bullying in school and cyberspace. Our findings suggest that adolescents with asthma who also report depressive symptoms are particularly at high risk for bullying than adolescents with asthma who did not report depressive symptoms. Efforts to increase education and decrease all types of bullying at the high school level for both students with and without asthma are warranted.
Renal denervation is feasible and safe in the treatment of resistant systemic arterial hypertension. Larger studies are required to confirm our findings.
HS is comparable to ACDF and ADR in terms of safety and feasibility. Findings of shorter in-hospital stay and earlier return to work in HS group may be further explored in large, randomised controlled trials.
The low number of asymptomatic HIV-infected persons with psychological symptoms (21%) is in accordance with other studies. Psychological symptoms and rumination correlate significantly in our sample. As rumination is difficult to recognize, HIV-infected patients should be directly questioned about rumination and their defence against threat should be supported in order to prevent the development of psychological symptoms.
Although the study was significantly underpowered, HOT prescribed for 15 hours per day and subsequently used for a mean of 5.4 hours per day has no impact on quality of life as measured by the MLwHF questionnaire score at 6 months. Suggestions for future research include (1) a trial of patients with severe heart failure randomised to have emergency oxygen supply in the house, supplied by cylinders rather than an oxygen concentrator, powered to detect a reduction in admissions to hospital, and (2) a study of bed-bound patients with heart failure who are in the last few weeks of life, powered to detect changes in symptom severity.
A shorter observation time after ambulatory percutaneous liver biopsy is safe and might facilitate the physician's ability to optimally utilize procedural space and ancillary staff in a busy ambulatory care unit.
Hyperconcentration was not associated with a clinically significant change in platelet activation and had no significant effect on platelet quality as detected by pH and platelet yield.
There was a statistically significant, but small, correlation between Breslow's thickness and diameter in skin melanomas. Moreover, a non-negligible proportion of small lesions were thick and/or nodular.
The implementation of NP measurement for HF management was a slow process between 2006 and 2009 at a time when guidelines had just been established. The decision limits were derived from package insert information and literature. There was great uncertainty concerning frequency of testing which may reflect the debate about the biological variability which was not published for most of the assays in 2009.
Adding a sexual dysfunction domain to UPOINT may help improve quality of life in men treated for urological chronic pelvic pain syndrome.
In this pilot study, the average incidence of POCD was not statistically different between elderly subjects undergoing open versus laparoscopic surgery. Age did not influence the occurrence of POCD. Although inflammatory markers were significantly higher in the open group, consistent with a higher degree of stress response, this group did not have higher rates of delirium. This association is worth to be investigated in a larger sample.
Urine 5-HIAA concentration measured in spot samples is not a reliable method for diagnosing acute appendicitis in children.
Increased cytokine concentrations may contribute to the endothelial damage that occurs with preeclampsia and may explain the mechanism underlying leukocyte activation in this disorder. The increased cytokine concentration may also be responsible for the endothelial adhesion that accompanies preeclampsia.
Among subjects with similar severity of obstructive sleep apnea and sleepiness, baseline self-reported sleep duration and latency, but not perceived insomnia, predicted CPAP adherence over 3 mo. Sleep duration explains some of the observed differences in CPAP use by race. Sleep duration and latency should be considered when evaluating poor CPAP adherence.
Pneumonectomy performed either by means of thoracoscopy or thoracotomy resulted in equivalent survival. Further studies and follow-up are needed to verify the benefits of video-assisted thoracic surgery pneumonectomy for lung cancer.
There is a significant negative correlation between ADCs and Gleason and D'Amico clinical risk scores. ADCs may therefore be useful in predicting the aggressiveness of prostate cancer.
In the current study, targeted intermittent FP to a selected population of PT infants was efficacious in reducing the rate of invasive candidiasis, compared with historical controls.
Despite detecting measurable S100B levels in urine following head injury, the same levels are measured following extracranial trauma. Urinary S100B is therefore not useful as an early biochemical marker following head injury in children.
We were able to gain new insights into positive and negative perceptions of students about learner-centered methods for teaching medical interviewing skills at one medical school in Japan.
These findings suggested that H. pylori infection is not influenced by a genetic compound and confirmed the relevance of environmental exposure.
Although RSV causes a different clinical syndrome than influenza A virus, it is not readily differentiated on clinical grounds from influenza A nor from all non-RSV illnesses in elderly patients.
The majority of high-risk neighborhoods were geographically near safety-net clinics with HPV vaccination services. Due to low rates of vaccination, these findings suggest that while services are geographically accessible, additional efforts are needed to improve uptake. Programs aimed to increase awareness about the vaccine and to link underserved groups to vaccination services are warranted.
Although quite common, an elevated nucleated cell count has moderate specificity and poor PPV in the diagnosis of infection in the setting of periprosthetic fracture.
The results suggest that there is an increased risk for impaired dental health status and behaviour among subjects with low levels of body appreciation and high levels of self-criticism.
The introduction of MTAs to therapies offers a survival benefit in elderly patients with mCRC. Further studies aimed at this specific patient population are still needed to monitor potential treatment-related toxicities to optimize the use of these drugs.
The authors suggest that the presence of collectionism could be a helpful clue towards diagnosis of DS in similar cases.
DECT may serve as a useful tool for response evaluation after anti-angiogenic treatment in NSCLC patients by providing information on the net enhancement of target lesions without obtaining non-enhanced images.
This retrospective study revealed more similarities than differences suggesting these are manifestations of the same psychopathology, with age and co-morbid anxiety potentially being important factors in predicting the symptomatic presentation. Prospective studies are needed to confirm our results. Future studies focusing more globally on somatoform disorders, rather than each phenotypic presentation, are likely needed to improve clinical care and outcomes.
Spectral analysis did not clearly distinguish stents from iodinated contrast with the DECT system used in this study. The larger stent lumens visualized by the high-energy components of the x-ray spectrum were not related to improved computed tomographic delineation of stent thickness.
Obesity increased significantly among children in low SES schools and preventive efforts should urgently and carefully target preventive efforts to assist schools, families and communities which are socially and economically, disadvantaged using culturally appropriate physical activity and nutrition promotion interventions.
The heterogeneity in consent choices suggests individuals should be offered some choice in use of their information for different types of health research, even if limited to selectively opting-out. Some of the implementation challenges could be designed into the interoperable electronic health record. However, many questions remain, including how best to capture the opinions of those who are more privacy sensitive.
Compared with the general population, a higher proportion of women and older men who advertise themselves on a dating website are smokers. Smokers may be perceived as less attractive.
On average, results from catheter-based thermodilution were more in agreement with results from the ultrasound dilution technique compared to Doppler ultrasound. However, considering the cost and the high technical failure rate of the thermodilutional system, we recommend the use of ultrasound.
US assessment may help the clinician decide between surgery and repeat FNA for managing Bethesda system III nodules. When the US assessment for the thyroid nodules is suspicious for malignancy, repeat FNA may be unnecessary and surgery should be considered.
The midluteal long GhRH-agonist suppressive protocol should be the protocol of choice in young patients in their first three IVF cycle attempts.
On the basis of the present data and those of two previous observations, anti-IL-6 and anti-infective properties of IFN-alpha are discussed. Treatment of multicentric Castleman's disease is based on corticosteroids and drugs derived from those pertaining to treatment of malignant lymphomas. Our results indicate that IFN-alpha is truly directed against Castleman's disease and has less toxicity than drugs usually prescribed. This argues for early use of IFN-alpha in Castleman's disease, in association or not with corticosteroids.
Although more research is needed to determine optimal roles for consumers in mental health service delivery, a randomized trial found no evidence that the presence of consumers enhances case management outcome.
As with alpha/beta and gamma/alpha of post-irradiation cell survival curves, a1/a2 and a3/a1 represents the cumulative effect of various radiobiological factors influencing clinical regression of tumor during the course of EXTRT. The dynamic changes in the coefficients of D, D2 sub and T, indicate their relative importance during various phases of EXTRT.
The results of the current study of a large cohort of deceased pediatric cancer patients indicate that enrollment on a phase 1 trial does not affect EOLC characteristics, suggesting that quality EOLC can be delivered regardless of phase 1 trial participation.
Cardiac testing can safely be omitted in intermediate-risk patients, provided that beta-blockers aiming at tight HR control are prescribed.
Based on our experience DBE is a safe and useful method for evaluating and treating small bowel disease in selected patients with obscure bleeding, IBD or polyposis syndromes, however the clinical importance of minute lesions still needs to be determined.
The present observational study is the first to compare the new Trifecta valve with well-established supra-annular aortic valve bioprostheses from a hemodynamic perspective. Although mean pressure gradients and aortic valve areas seem to be advantageous at 6-month follow-up with the new Trifecta valve, after multivariate covariance analysis, no influence of prosthesis type on mean pressure gradient or aortic valve area could be demonstrated.
In the ART era, ambulatory HIV/AIDS patients continue to experience a high physical and psychological symptom burden. For those with advanced disease, psychological symptoms are particularly important. It is important to be observant of gender differences in patterns of symptom distress in HIV outpatient care settings. The high prevalence of hunger warrants attention as it may compromise ART initiation and adherence to ART.
As a result of increased loading, the strength of the rotator cuff muscles of young trainees increased, but by the parameter of hypertrophy, no evidence was found of a parallel adaptive response of the rotator cuff tendon.
The enlargement of RNFLD in NTG was closely associated with DH occurrence and the deterioration of visual field.
Exposure of ewe lambs to mature vasectomised rams is an effective means of increasing the numbers of ewe lambs bred and pregnant to the first 17 days of breeding. In contrast, a 17-day exposure to ram lambs whose scrotums had been shortened by the use of a rubber ring, at the ratios utilised in the present study, were not a suitable alternative to mature vasectomised rams for inducing early breeding activity in ewe lambs.
Anterior sacral roots stimulator implants can improve bowel function in patients with spinal cord trauma.
The complication rate and accuracy of closed DPL in patients with previous abdominal surgery were similar to those for DPL performed in patients without previous abdominal surgery.
Better prediction tools to estimate more precisely the risk for death due to comorbid illness versus breast cancer are needed. In some patients, the risks of therapy could outweigh the benefits. Treatment selection for T1a,bN0 HER2-positive cancers remains in the transition area between evidence- and subjective judgment-based medicine.
This study provides valuable insight, showing that overweight adolescents, although eager to lose weight, are likely to choose unhealthy methods. School and family health promotion counseling may help encourage overweight adolescents to adopt more healthy habits.
Outcomes for favorable IR were superior to those with unfavorable IR. Within the confines of this study, neither the addition nor dose of supplemental EBRT influenced BF, PCSM, or OM in patients with IR disease.
The putative negative correlation between DOS and outcome was not observed under any analysis in our study. PLIF procured a rapid and sustained improvement in CLBP, even where the DOS was excessively prolonged; and even after having allowed for pain severity. Symptom chronicity, therefore, does not represent a poor prognostic indicator for CLBP outcome after PLIF: PLIF should be considered irrespective of DOS. Because DOS and pain severity are likely mediators of "central sensitization," the hypothesis that central sensitization may be prevalent in CLBP patients selected for PLIF is therefore questioned.
Hemophagocytosis, CD8 T cell expansion, and the paucity of infected cells in HME, suggest that E. chaffeensis infection leads to macrophage activation and immune-mediated injury.
There is merit to examining the relative contribution of different pro-smoking media channels to smoking behavior.
Our results suggest that better risk assessment could improve antenatal identification of FGR. Sex-specific fetal growth references should be used to avoid systematic bias linked to sex.
These data support that Gartland type I SCH fractures can be treated effectively with long-arm posterior splinting for the duration of therapy.
While this case is unique for the length of follow-up, the continuous and detailed description of NSHPT after total parathyroidectomy in its adult phenotype, and the treatment of hypoparathyroidism with rhPTH (1-84). Following this first description of a statural defect due to shortening of long bones in NSHPT, future investigations will attempt to uncover the role of calcium signaling in growth plate cartilage in humans.
Circumcision decreases colonization of periurethral bacterial pathogenic flora. In boys with low-grade VUR, circumcision plus antibiotic prophylaxis prevented recurrent and febrile urinary tract infections.
Pleural CRP levels of less than 25 mg/l on the second postoperative day indicate only a moderate pleural inflammation.
This study establishes that, under certain realistic conditions, CAHPS ratings could affect consumer selection of health plans and ultimately contain costs. Other studies are needed to learn how to enhance exposure and use of CAHPS information in the real world as well as to identify other conditions in which CAHPS ratings could make a difference.
From clinical point of view rTMS seems to be a well-tolerated neurostimulation method for treatment of negative schizophrenia symptoms with favourable of impact on cognitive functions.
The validity of the ICF Core Set for RA from the perspective of occupational therapists was largely confirmed.
The clinical and radiographic results of the all-arthroscopic tibial inlay DB PCL reconstruction appear comparable to the same technique in isolated PCL injuries and, based on similar published case series, comparable to results of multiligamentous knee reconstructions using other PCL reconstruction techniques.
Curative gastric cardiectomy or esophagectomy associated with concurrent major pulmonary operation is not contraindicated in patients in good condition. In selected patients, when the operative procedures for cardiectomy or esophagectomy are appropriately modified to minimize the effect of the associated pulmonary operation, the treatment is associated with a low operative morbidity and mortality with an acceptable long-term survival.
Analysis of platelet function in a patient with late stent thrombosis is useful and may allow adaptation of subsequent patient management. The value of monitoring platelet function after implantation of a drug eluting stent should be evaluated in prospective studies.
Five cases of primary peritonitis are reported, and from a review of published work, a classification of primary peritonitis is suggested, which more clearly identifies the cause of the disease.
The authors' analyses suggest that subtle gender bias may continue to operate in the post-2009 NIH review format in ways that could lead reviewers to implicitly hold male and female applicants to different standards of evaluation, particularly for R01 renewals.
The increased prevalence of nearly every symptom assessed from all bodily organ systems among the Gulf War veterans is difficult to explain pathophysiologically as a single condition. Identification of the same patterns of symptoms among the deployed veterans and nondeployed controls suggests that the health complaints of Gulf War veterans are similar to those of the general military population and are not consistent with the existence of a unique Gulf War syndrome.
Adults with low BMRs did not gain more weight than did adults with high BMRs, implying that habitual differences in food intake or activity counterbalance variations in BMR as a risk factor for weight gain in a typical Western population.
The complication rate during the catheterization of adults with CHD in a PCL is similar to the complication rate of children with CHD undergoing cardiac catheterization. The older subset of patients are more likely to encounter complications overall. The encountered complications could be handled effectively in the PCL. With screening in place, it is safe to perform cardiac catheterization on most adults with CHD in a PCL.
This is the first Canadian case-register study to support the widely reported falling rates of schizophrenia in other parts of the world over the last 40 years. Since this is a geographically limited prevalence study based on only 10 years of data, further research over longer periods of time in other regions of the country is required to support or refute these findings.
There were no statistically significant changes in nickel patch test results and allergy-related symptoms after Essure sterilization. Furthermore, among the patients with a positive patch test before Essure sterilization, the grade of reaction did not increase after sterilization. These results indicate that Essure sterilization likely is not related to nickel sensitization.
Increasing the pitch on unenhanced helical CT for suspected renal colic to 2.5 or 3.0 appears to be an effective method of reducing radiation dose. Although accuracy of the technique did not significantly change using a pitch of 3.0 in one group of patients, compared with a pitch of 2.5 in another group of patients, image quality did decrease.
Empirical antibiotic therapy in asymptomatic male patients is not related to PSA reduction. The greater than 10% PSA reduction after antibiotic in this population cannot postpone prostate biopsy.
The results of the US assessment of post-occlusive changes in the diameter of cavernosal arteries after vardenafil administration are significantly associated with the clinical efficacy of the drug in patients with arteriogenic ED.
This study evaluated the link between primary care, clinical status and main clinical outcomes in HF patients. In higher need patients, a low-intensity practice style was associated with poorer clinical outcomes.
Symptom resolution for a new LBP complaint was significantly higher in patients who decided on the GP, even when controlling for severity of illness and degree of disturbance to everyday functioning.
We do not find support for the hypothesis that children and pregnant women who use private care are less likely to receive public health services. Results are consistent with the notion that Indian households are able to successfully navigate the coexisting public and private systems, and obtain services selectively from each. However, because the study employed an observational, cross-sectional study design, findings should be interpreted cautiously.
CRP appears to be a reliable and predictable indicator for anastomotic leakage after esophagectomy and should, therefore, be routinely used as a screening marker to provide a reason for extended diagnosis.
To our knowledge, this is the largest study to date examining ambient temperature association and epistaxis, and the first to investigate presentation rate in place of admission rate. We feel that the exclusion of all patients with epistaxis not admitted to hospital introduces a bias. In this series, there is no correlation between ambient temperature, seasonal preponderance, presentation rate or admission rate for patients with epistaxis. This is contrary to previously reported findings. We do not support the view that there is a relationship between epistaxis and temperature or seasonal variation. This contradicts the current belief that incidence of epistaxis displays seasonality, and has implications for the allocation of resources for healthcare provision within ENT departments.
Low weight is not a risk factor for recurrent obstruction after repair of coarctation of the aorta in infants less than 3 months of age. Rather, risk of recoarctation is more a function of the anatomy of the arch. Thus, it is not indicated to delay repair in low weight infants with the goal of achieving growth.
The association between QTcD and MMSE requires cautious interpretation and further extensive investigation. However, if confirmed by longitudinal studies, the finding could play a role in the management of the subjects with MCI.
The laparoscopic approach is an oncologically safe option for the rescue treatment of testicular cancer. The complex location of these masses entails the onset of severe intraoperative complications. We have observed a clear relationship between vascular complications and large masses (>7 cm). We therefore believe that it would be appropriate to establish a limit on the size for laparoscopic treatment.
We recommend that a search for MD in every case of appendicectomy/ laparotomy done for acute abdomen should be conducted, and if found, Meckel's diverticulectomy or resection should be performed to avoid secondary complications arising from it.
Although small hypertropias can be treated with prisms or small, adjustable inferior rectus recessions, IOR collapses incomitance without causing much overcorrection. IOR is a reasonable treatment for small, laterally incomitant hypertropia due to SOP.
The innovative design and outreach procedures of the KCIS have led to a growth in delivery of screening services to groups sometimes overlooked (equity), community involvement in health care (participation) and the use of non-health organizations for publicity and health education (collaboration). Simulation studies indicate that multiple disease screening may be more cost-effective than single disease screening.
The N-of-1 strategy offers a realistic and viable option for increasing access to selected high cost medications where the medications are used for the symptomatic treatment of chronic disease, have rapid onset of action, and clinical response is unpredictable without a trial.
Differences in admission rates to the coronary care unit and the rate of thrombolysis between the sexes can be explained by the older age of women sustaining infarction. The application of age limits for admission to coronary care or administration of thrombolysis places elderly patients at a disadvantage. As women sustain myocardial infarctions at an older age they are placed at a greater disadvantage.
The outcome of conventional aortic arch surgery in octogenarians is improving. The operations were performed with an acceptable operative risk even under emergency situations, including acute aortic dissection. The conventional surgical option for aortic arch diseases should not be abandoned only because of the high chronologic age of the patient.
In this community-based cohort, there was no statistically significant association seen between LTPA, OPA and shoulder pain. There was, however, an association between smoking, BMI, secondary-level education, depression and shoulder pain. These modifiable factors may be better targets for preventive efforts than LTPA to reduce the risk of shoulder pain.
Physician organizations' performance scores in a major P4P program vary by the SES of the areas in which their practice sites are located. P4P programs that do not account for this are likely to pay higher bonuses to POs in higher SES areas, thus increasing the resource gap between these POs and POs in lower SES areas, which may increase disparities in the care they provide.
Closing the PFO choosing the device following strict anatomical criteria based on TEE assessment allowed excellent immediate and late results minimizing residual shunts.
SF-36/SF-12 preference-based algorithms produced a wide range of ICURs that could potentially lead to different reimbursement decisions. Brazier's SF-36 and SF-12 algorithms have a strong methodological and theoretical basis and tended to generate relatively higher ICUR estimates, considerations that support a preference for these algorithms over the alternatives. The "second-generation" algorithms developed from scores mapped from other indirect preference-based measures tended to generate lower ICURs that would promote greater adoption of new technology. There remains a need for an SF-36/SF-12 preference-based algorithm based on the US general population that has strong theoretical and methodological foundations.
Routine chest radiography after PDT is of low yield. Because most of these patients require chest radiographs for their underlying disease within 12 hours, a cost savings of approximately $13,500 would be realized in this patient population.
Ultrasound Doppler techniques used for measuring peripheral arterial flow can be adapted to quantify mandible alveolar ridge perfusion. This provides means to evaluate the role of arterial obstruction in mandible alveolar ridge atrophy and tooth loss in the elderly. The mental artery is the best site for this purpose. Preliminary data suggest an age-related reduction in mental artery flow.
Sedentary behavior and overall PA levels are not meeting current guidelines. However, the Dutch youth behaviors in sports, active transportation, and active play are satisfactory. Several modifiable factors of influence might be enhanced to improve these indicators or at least prevent regression. Although Dutch children accumulate a lot of daily PA through cycling, it is not enough to meet the current national PA guidelines of 60 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous PA per day.
We suggest that the ability of triptans such as zolmitriptan, sumatriptan and rizatriptan to increase plasma growth hormone is mediated by their common agonist activity at postsynaptic 5-HT1D receptors.
Although individual developmental concerns at school entry variably predict later academic and language scores, sensitivity and specificity values would not support use of the PEDS as a stand-alone screen to detect later problems.
Laparoscopic repeat hepatic resections can be performed safely and with good results, particularly in patients with earlier laparoscopic resections.
Patients undergoing hysterectomy who have had a tubal interruption may be at risk for the development of hydrosalpinx because this combination of procedures results in a segment of tube that is blocked at both ends. If further study bears out this association, consideration should be given to performing salpingectomy at the time of hysterectomy even if the ovaries are being left behind.
Our study highlights the high frequency of depression and antidepressant use in patients admitted with AWS to an acute care hospital. As alcohol withdrawal is associated with increased morbidity and mortality and depression is common in those with alcohol use disorder, further research is necessary to clarify the optimal treatment of comorbid depression and alcohol use disorder in reducing these revolving door admissions.
Behavioral health can be delivered to youth with T1DM via Internet-based videoconferencing without significantly impacting the therapeutic relationship. Thus, for those adolescents with T1DM who require specialized behavioral health care that targets T1DM management, Internet-based teleconferencing represents a viable alternative to clinic-based care.
Neither lifetime major depression, nor the degree of depressive symptoms in alcohol-dependent men at the time of treatment, compromise drinking outcomes in the 6 months following treatment.
Routine use of antibiotics in nonperforated appendicitis in children is not necessary.
Congenital CMV infections may cause deafness in neonates, but this might be independent of GJB2 gene mutation.
Cases of penile fracture with early or delayed presentation up to 7 days should be managed surgically. Both groups have comparable excellent outcome with no serious long-term complications.
Single-stage laryngotracheal reconstruction with anterior and posterior cartilage grafts appears to be a safe and effective technique for managing patients with high-grade subglottic stenosis at intermediate size children's hospitals. Our overall decannulation rate of 92% compares favorably to that reported in the literature (84-96%).
These data suggest that NTBI is related to the degree of ineffective erythropoiesis and that it contributes towards inducing apoptosis in MDS bone marrow precursors. The presence of leukemic growth is associated with low NTBI levels, probably due to increased iron consumption by blast cells.
We demonstrate for the first time a possible role for prolactin in ASST-positive CU patients and its association with disease severity. We recommend larger prospective studies to assess changes in prolactin and DHEA-S levels after complete disease remission.
Most malignant rectal polyps are neither diagnosed nor tattooed at initial colonoscopy. Moreover, the distance of the polyp from the anal verge is rarely measured, and gross characteristics are not well described. Tattooing of all endoscopically excised rectal polypectomy sites would avoid confounding of subsequent identification and management.
Of this population almost half of the men had bone mass densities in the osteopenic/osteoporotic ranges, regardless of their total testosterone blood level. Therefore, monitoring the total testosterone blood level is not a reliable method to determine the risk for developing opioid-associated osteoporosis. Further investigations should be done to help evaluate whether routine bone mass density screenings for men prescribed opioids for chronic pain management may be warranted.
In the general and IBS populations, gender differences in IBS symptoms exist, although these differences are modest. Studies suggest that female sex hormones influence the severity of IBS symptoms, but more studies are needed.
Structured hepatotoxicity-specific causality assessment methods such as the updated CIOMS scale are the preferred tools for causality assessment of assumed herbal hepatotoxicity and should replace the liver-unspecific Naranjo scale. Applying the updated CIOMS scale to cases with initially assumed hepatotoxicity by BC, causality was now found either unlikely or excluded.
Racial/ethnic minority groups and those of lower socioeconomic status have significantly lower use and proper use of booster seats. Legislation may increase the total use of booster seats but not necessarily the correct use of the restraint, particularly in racial/ethnic minorities.
Parents indicate that they want information about many aspects of immunizations, and those familiar with the VIPs report high levels of satisfaction with the pamphlets.
While the addition of mineralization medium generally increased the expression of osteogenic markers and decreased the expression of myofibroblastic markers, VICs displayed different levels and patterns of expression than the osteoblastic cell types used for comparison. Additionally, the lack of an alpha-SMA increase at any point after the addition of mineralization medium to VICs indicated that these cells may not need to progress through a myofibroblastic stage before reaching an osteoblast-like gene expression profile.
According to the authors' logit model, patients with a history of mild hypertension or with a higher resting heart rate, associated with controlled symptoms of heart failure (New York Heart Association class I-II) or moderate to severe left ventricular ejection fraction (range, 0.20-0.33) showed a remarkable probability of long-term (2-year) improvement on metoprolol.
ATLAS will provide information on the relative safety and efficacy of a patient- versus physician-led titration strategy for insulin glargine-based basal insulin initiation in patients who are not controlled with two OADs in Asia and Russia. The results of the study may guide policymakers to translate data into clinical practice.
Advanced age is independently associated with higher risk of death after AAA repair and indication for surgery should be adjusted for different age groups accordingly. Endovascular aneurysm repair should be preferred for octogenarians and nonagenarians with indication to undergo repair of their AAA.
Intraoperative systemic heparin use has no statistically significant effect on the incidence of microvascular thrombosis. In addition, administration of a single dose of intraoperative heparin does not increase the rate of hematoma formation or prevent microvascular thrombosis. Thus, critical factors for flap survival are likely independent of the use of intraoperative anticoagulation.
For settings where physician confirmation of cervical abnormalities identified through visual inspection is required and available, this study demonstrates that VIAM had no significant advantage over VIA.
Postmenopausal bleeding incurs a 64-fold increase risk for endometrial cancer. There was no increased risk of endometrial cancer or atypia in women who did not have recurrent bleeding, whereas women with recurrent bleeding were a high-risk group. No endometrial cancer was missed when endometrial thickness measurement (cutoff value,<or =4 mm) was used, even if the women were followed up for<or =10 years. We conclude that transvaginal sonographic scanning is an excellent tool for the determination of whether further investigation with curettage or some form of endometrial biopsy is necessary
Patients who are satisfied with their initial decision to undergo surgery are most likely to comply with planned therapy. Conversely, patients who score<4.0 on the SWD scale may benefit from additional preoperative counseling to increase the likelihood of compliance.
These results stress the importance of optimizing t>MIC, even at peri-MIC concentrations, of ceftazidime against resistant strains. Local prevalence of resistance justifies, on a pharmacodynamic basis, electing for continuous infusion versus intermittent administration.
Subjective fatigue rating scale scores alone should not be used as an indicator of motor disability or disease progression as it affects walking performance of patients with MS.
This single-centre retrospective study supports the treatment for selected cases of anal canal cancer with smaller than standard radiation fields, avoiding prophylactic inguinal nodal irradiation. Hopefully this will translate into reduced acute and late toxicity. In future studies we would suggest that consideration is given as to whether omission of prophylactic inguinal nodal irradiation for early stage tumours should be explored.
These results suggest the possible existence of malaria traps, which provides policy implications. Notably, providing ITN/LLINs at subsidized prices is not sufficient. To be efficient an ITN/LLINs dissemination campaigns should include incentive of the very poor for using ITN/LLINs.
1. Treatment with local infiltration of corticosteroids is effective in dealing with pain, and is an alternative to treatment with NSAIDs. 2. It is feasible in primary care, and there are many advantages if the general practitioner employs this therapeutic technique.
Support groups appear to be an important adjunct for patients who undergo LAGB, to achieve and maintain improved weight loss.
Residents' learning about quality and patient safety is extensive, largely through a positive informal curriculum in the teaching hospital and, less frequently, via a formal curriculum. No relationship was found between the quality performance of the teaching hospital and the residents' curriculum or understanding of quality or safety. Residents seem to learn through an informal curriculum provided by hospital initiatives and resources, and thus these data suggest the importance of major teaching hospitals in quality education.
UDS is able to show that several patients with symptoms of pure SUI present an underlying DO and do not require surgery, even 1 year after UDS. In these patients, antimuscarinic treatment appears to ensure a good rate of cure; thus, UDS could lead to the avoidance of several surgical procedures.
Subtotal hepatectomy of 90% in swine is a reliable model for SFSS inducing a significant increase in HVPG. However, in view of the relevant differences between swine and human splanchnic anatomy, this model is inadequate for studying the effects of PIM by SAL and splenectomy.
We show that neither the MDRD study equation nor the Mayo Clinic equation add extra value to the information already contained in Scr itself. Because of the limited applicability of the eGFR equations, Scr has even more potential to assist in the diagnosis and classification of CKD than eGFR-MDRD.
Pulmonary artery hypertension does not seems to be a contraindicating factor to early extubation in patients who underwent ventricular septal defect closure, and may be considered a feasible way to decrease postoperative intensive care unit stay and hospital costs.
Women who have intercourse around ovulation should ideally be offered a copper intrauterine device. Women with body mass index>25 kg/m(2) should be offered an intrauterine device or UPA. All women should be advised to start effective contraception immediately after EC.
The use of fluoroscopy during reduction of forearm fractures in the paediatric population apparently does not have a significant effect on patient outcomes. Reductions performed without fluoroscopy were comparably accurate in correcting deformities in both coronal and sagittal planes.
High prevalence rate of abnormal BMD among healthy adults should be further studied in this population. The findings also suggest that the current ignorance in adulthood may increase the prevalence of osteoporotic fractures in the future.
Omission of SLN intra-operative staging in T1-N0-patients is rather safe. It provides the institution with both management and economical advantages.
Our data indicate, that neither expression of c-MET nor the gene amplification status might be the best way to select patients for MET targeting therapies, since no correlation with the activation status of MET was observed. We propose to take into account analyzing the phosphorylation status of MET by IHC to select patients for MET targeting therapies. Signaling of the receptor and the activation of downstream molecules might be more crucial for the benefit of therapeutics targeting MET receptor tyrosine kinases than expression levels alone.
No difference was determined between students' attitudes toward a diagnosis of 'schizophrenia' and one of 'a psychiatric disease known as Bleuler's syndrome'. The focus in preventing stigmatization of schizophrenia should not concentrate on a name change alone. Changing the name schizophrenia may be of no use unless public ignorance and fear of psychiatric diseases can also be overcome.
The findings presented here do not support the suggestion that childhood leukaemia is related to the amount of social contact that fathers experience at work.
Circadian and circaseptan (weekly) fluctuations of SAH occurrence in the southern hemisphere are similar to those in the northern hemisphere, but the occurrence of SAH in Australasia exhibits clear seasonal (winter and spring) peaks.
The assessment of criterion A (A1 and A2) is not necessary for the identification of individuals suffering from PTSD symptoms according to DSM-IV. We suggest therefore that criterion A is a dispensable part of the diagnosis of PTSD.
Although immigrants face many hurdles and challenges in their resettlement process in Canada, given the evidence from the paper, they are not likely to be at higher risk for work-related injuries relative to those Canadian-born.
We conclude that a renal biopsy composed of two cores from different areas of the kidney provides enough material for histological diagnosis. However, despite the variety of different renal diseases, sampling errors are minimal and obtaining two biopsies from different areas of the kidney does not lead to clinically useful information which would alter the management of patients.
Distal radius point tenderness and a 20% or more decrease in grip strength were predictive of fractures.
The determination of neopterin in the sera cannot be used for screening of viral infections in pregnancy.
Overall sexual function of men was not affected by their partner's parity and mode of delivery. An elective cesarean section simply because of concerns about sexual function would not provide additional benefit to men, and could deny women a possible vaginal delivery, which is generally assumed to be safer than cesarean section.
The worsening of QoL due to positivity at MDQ is largely independent from comorbid conditions, supporting the hypothesis that MDQ positivity identifies a specific area of suffering that is "subthreshold" to the psychiatric diagnosis, and relevant for public health.
This preliminary study shows no evidence of a relationship between uterine activity and endocervical canal length in the second trimester.
The use of mature horses in the French racing circuit can explain that the CA genotype is still present in the French trotter horses.
Although many patients with AF will have persistent episodes, long-term continuous pacemaker follow-up demonstrates that the majority will have a paroxysmal, as opposed to persistent, form of the arrhythmia.
In patients with PSA<or =10 ng/ml and biopsy Gleason score<or =6, positive lymph nodes were identified by radio-guided surgery in 6.8% (positive biopsies in one lobe) and 10.7% (positive biopsies in both lobes). Up to 4 positive SLN were found. Therefore, we suggest not to dispense with an operative lymph node staging, even in low risk disease.
Intraoperative force-sensing has potential in providing real-time objective data to optimize TKA outcomes. These data support some early outcomes may improve by balancing TKAs within 60 lbs difference. Close follow-up is warranted to determine if gait pattern adaptations affect longer term outcomes with greater or less ligament "imbalance."
Adjustment for predictive baseline characteristics, even when largely balanced, may lead to clearly different estimates of the treatment effect on mortality rates. Adjustment for important predictors such as age is recommended in clinical trials studying patients with acute myocardial infarction.
Adherence to NCCN guidelines remains insufficient, with nonadherence being associated with inadequate analgesia. Opioid-tolerant patients remain at higher risk for guideline nonadherence and inadequate analgesia. Quality improvement initiatives should target opioid-tolerant patients.
Arousing interest is a promising strategy to increase use of Internet-delivered interventions and potentially increase the public health impact of these interventions.
The risk for biochemical failure after adjuvant radiotherapy in post-operative patients presenting with minimal residual disease is significantly influenced by the Roach formula. These findings are considered to provide a rationale for the decision on the volume of post-operative radiotherapy.
KRAS mutation significantly correlates with a worse outcome in patients treated with cetuximab, whereas no definitive inference can be drawn about the role of BRAF mutation and PTEN loss of expression. Instead, c-MET overexpression might represent a negative prognostic factor in mCRC and may have a role in resistance to anti-EGFR therapy. Interestingly, IGF1R overexpression seems a favorable prognostic factor in mCRC.
MPO activity is not directly proportional to the severity of the inflammation, but it may only determine the amount of neutrophil in the tissues. Inflammatory cells are not the sole intensifying factor in colitis. Therefore, mucosal injury scores may not correlate well with MPO activities. In an inflammatory state NO and MPO levels have a strong relationship, since NO is released from the neutrophils. In an inflammatory model of colitis, intrarectal honey administration is as effective as prednisolone treatment. Honey may have some features in the treatment of colitis, but this issue requires further investigation. Honey, prednisolone and even disulfiram also have some value in preventing the formation of free radicals released from the inflamed tissues. Prednisolone may also have some possible benefits in the inhibition of NO production in colitis therapy.
We found evidence that stimulant treatment decreases the risk for subsequent comorbid psychiatric disorders and academic failure in youth with ADHD.
The majority of patients identified by the Meaningful Use VTE-6 algorithm did not suffer truly potentially preventable VTE. Misclassification of VTE as "potentially preventable" hinders efforts to target true opportunities for quality improvement.
There is insufficient evidence to determine whether exercise-induced weight loss is associated with reductions in abdominal fat. Clearly there is a need for carefully controlled studies wherein the primary aim is to determine the influence of regular exercise on total and abdominal adiposity.
Tooth sectioning, smoking and degree of smoking are all associated with the development of PCs such as AO and AI after simple exodontia. Dentists must be alert to these factors when performing simple exodontia in smokers in view of the increased risk for PCs.
All remplissage techniques enhanced shoulder stability, restricted ROM, and increased joint stiffness. No significant differences were found between anchors placed in the valley (T1) vs those placed in the humeral head rim (T2). Medial suture placement (T3) resulted in the greatest joint stiffness values and mean restriction in motion.
The moderate interrater agreement observed in this study is disappointingly low and suggests that CTAS reliability may be lower than expected, and this warrants further research. Intra-observer reliability of CTAS should be ascertained more extensively among experienced nurses, and a future evaluation should involve several institutions.
Totally tubeless double-access PCNL is feasible and bleeding complications are comparable to single access totally tubeless PCNL making it an effective strategy to achieve more stone free rates.
ICU admission should be considered in selected critically ill cancer patients with AKI requiring renal replacement therapy.
The study indicates that men's PSA levels are, indeed, increased after cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. However, in 9 months of follow-up, there was no association between this PSA rise and development of BOO, according to International Prostate Symptom Scores.
The GCIG CA-125 response criteria are a better prognostic tool than RECIST in second-line treatment with topotecan or paclitaxel plus carboplatin in patients with ovarian carcinoma.
Light's criteria are significantly superior to the clinical presumption to separate pleural transudates from exudates. In patients receiving diuretics, Light's criteria lose accuracy, which is similar to that showed by the use of alternative biochemical criteria alone or combined with clinical judgment.
Palliative treatment of incurable obstructive colorectal carcinoma using stents is an effective and suitable alternative to palliative surgery with no negative impact on the survival but less peri-interventional morbidity and mortality as well as comparable overall morbidity.
In ureteral stone management, ultrathin-URS along with either holmium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet laser or pneumatic lithotripter can be safely and effectively used with a minimal morbidity as a first-line treatment in prepubertal children without active or passive ureteral dilatation and postoperative stenting.
Perihemorrhagic hypoperfusion probably is a consequence of reduced metabolic demand (diaschisis) rather than a sign of ischemia. We found no evidence for a perihemorrhagic and potentially salvageable ischemic penumbra in hyperacute ICH. Further studies should address metabolic, toxic, apoptotic, and microvascular aspects.
A combination of β-blocker and diuretic is still commonly used in the treatment of hypertension in patients without coronary artery disease and heart failure. Despite the use of combination treatment in about 90% of hypertensive patients and attempts at reaching lower target BP values than those recommended by the guidelines, treatment targets were achieved only in one-fourth of the patients.
The results of this study, within its limitations, suggest that dentate individuals would be willing to pay a significant amount to receive mandibular two-implant overdentures if and when they become edentate.
A positive ASM was associated with a significantly greater risk of BR compared with a positive ASTM. The very low estimated risk of BR at 5 years in cases with ASTM suggests that performing the ASTM biopsies may increase the cure rates achieved with RP.
Interference with pelvic blood supply from prolonged aortic cross clamping, intraoperative hypotension, aortic embolization, and interruption of internal iliac artery circulation have all been suggested as possible causes of spinal cord ischemia. In this survey, none of these factors proved to be significant as the sole cause of spinal cord ischemia. In the performance of an aortic operation with an end-to-end proximal anastomosis in the presence of severe external or internal iliac artery disease, there may be an increased incidence of spinal cord ischemia despite appropriate surgical techniques to ensure internal iliac perfusion. Spinal cord ischemia after abdominal aortic operations appears to be a tragically unpredictable, random, and unpreventable event.
The findings suggest that therapy which targets word retrieval can have an impact on people with aphasia's views of their communicative activity and life participation. The findings support therapists' clinical insight that impairment-based interventions can effect change beyond scores on language tests.
The presence of thickened bowel wall on CT scans is a nonspecific finding in children. Laboratory evaluation may help distinguish which patients require additional evaluation and endoscopy.
The results highlight a mismatch between the themes in previous published reviews and the themes emerging from the workshop. The most commonly reflected themes in reviews conform to the 'patient education' model of discourse, while workshop themes less often echoed in reviews reflect the discourse of 'patient empowerment'.
On account of the lower incidence of post-operative complications, the laparoscopic approach should be indicated in colorectal surgery for geriatric patients.
The variation we found, although not necessarily in tune with the guidelines, reflects the variation in patients' need for knowledge about their condition.
People at high risk for developing chronic illnesses later in life reported poorer diets in comparison with people who are already ill. This probably represents increased nutritional awareness and motivation among people with chronic diseases. Because primary care patients have a high prevalence of chronic disease risk factors, the primary care office setting may constitute a particularly appropriate location for nutrition education.
The presence of TIRDA in the clinical and EEG context is very suggestive of JAE as posterior delta waves are of childhood absence epilepsy but with a more anterior location over the temporal lobe. This pattern was not described before probably because in this easily diagnosed and treated type of IGE, few patients have long-term video-EEG and also because a wrong diagnosis of focal epilepsy can be made. This pattern must be known to avoid the risk of treating this epilepsy by inappropriate antiepileptic drugs.
Coma might have become irreversible immediately after IACASS because the prolonged duration of cerebral hypoperfusion could have caused irreversible cerebral tissue injury. Our study provides some preliminary findings suggesting that IACASS may be a predictor of impending brain death. A prospective study is the next step to understanding whether this phenomenon can be applied clinically to diagnose irreversible apneic coma.
Psychiatrists in the community appear to operate to a sub-typing model of mood disorders, preferentially prescribing many medications according to mood disorder sub-type.
In terms of results corroborating decreased proximal malfunction rates, we present the largest series of stereotactic-guided ventricular catheter placements to date. Though time in the operating room is increased due to navigation registration, actual operative time is comparable to procedures without navigation. A longer-term follow-up is needed to assess the longevity of our positive short-term results.
Having metabolic syndrome either with or without central obesity confers IHD risk. However, having central obesity as an "optional" rather than "essential" criterion identifies more individuals at risk of IHD in this Asian cohort.
Age differences between married partners are not associated with women's contraceptive use in Nigeria after adjustment for covariates. Further study is needed to understand this finding.
Within a population that is highly motivated to lose weight, the combination of high weight loss goals and formulating detailed plans for changing dietary behaviours may be most effective in supporting weight loss. Statement of contribution What is already known on this subject? More specific plans are associated with increased performance of health-related behaviours. More motivated individuals form more specific plans. The interrelationship between plan specificity, plan content and behaviour-related goals in relation intervention effectiveness has not been explored to date. What does this study add? The effectiveness of forming specific plans may depend on the strength of behaviour-related goals as well as the behaviour selected for change. More detailed plans, in particular dietary plans, were related to greater weight loss, but only for participants with higher initial weight loss goals. Detailed exercise plans were not associated with weight loss, regardless of initial weight loss goals.
Of the recent new developments in neonatology, only SRT was associated with a decreased risk for severe ROP.
This analysis revealed a significant improvement in the survival of ABOi liver transplant recipients in the modern era. Importantly, ABOi liver transplantation can be performed in recipients younger than 2 years of age with equivalent outcomes compared with ABO-identical recipients.
The study results show a relation between hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance and colon pathologies in acromegaly. Fasting insulin level and HOMA-IR correlate positively with the number of hyperplastic polyps and adenomas in acromegalic patients with multiply colorectal lesions.
This study observed increased rates of gastric IM with colonic polyps. An increased risk of gastric IM was associated with higher grades of polyp dysplasia.
The influence of physicians' own health behaviors and the importance of preventive intervention barriers, indicates a need for development of an approach to reduce the dominance of risky behavior.
These results indicate that cooling of the pulmonary graft inside the cadaver is the preferred method in an NHBD protocol. It is also confirmed that 1 hour of warm ischemia does not diminish graft function upon reperfusion.
Within the current sample, general psychiatric labels did not appear to distinguish themselves from each other on measures of attitude and social distance but did so when compared to a relatively more specific term. Future research should examine the underlying mechanism driving this finding, with the ultimate goal of reducing the stigma faced by those with mental disorders.
The results of this study, the first which has approached this investigation in children, showed that waist circumference measured at the age of 8 y, which is simple to perform and easy to reproduce, may be a promising index to assess adiposity as well as to predict overweight at puberty.
The greater social acceptability of suicidality in people with disabilities may be taken by individuals with disabilities who are suicidal as implicit permission to end their lives. The potential impact of such social influences should be assessed and addressed by clinicians and suicide prevention advocates.
We deduce that plasmatic levels of endothelin does not seem to be affected by the metabolic control in patients with type I diabetes mellitus without complications.
The 2007 survey of faculty development practices in Canadian medical schools indicates that teaching is still the number one priority for faculty members and the main focus of faculty development programs. There are notable efforts to help faculty members deal with their newly identified roles including those outlined in the CanMEDS framework. In looking forward, Canadian faculty development directors should continue their efforts to devise credible program evaluation methods. Furthermore, they should expand their thinking beyond Canada's borders. It is time to aggressively explore and understand the approaches and experiences which have proven successful internationally in the United States and Europe.
HPV may not play a role in non-progressing diffuse high-grade lesions of the larynx.
Hereditary Pheo and/or PGL are frequent (28.2%). Inheritance is evident at presentation only in 16.9% of cases; 13.6% of apparently sporadic variants are genetically determined. Despite increased costs, systematic genetic screening might be useful because it might lead to a stricter follow-up, early diagnosis of recurrences in index cases and presymptomatic detection of disease in relatives.
The result is consistent with the fact that all time or space clustering of CJD ever reported has proved ascribable to familial cases, and with the fact that case-control studies have never identified environmental risk factors for sporadic CJD.
In conclusion, it seems that in hyperlipidemia, some platelets are in an activated state in circulation, and that increased lipid peroxidation, early apoptosis, platelet-leukocytes aggregate formation and platelet aggregation altogether accompany this process.
This case-control study finds that elderly Medicare beneficiaries with histories of OA have 15% lower odds of developing CRC. These results are consistent with a preventive role for NSAIDs in CRC among the elderly.
We evaluated for the first time levels of OPG and RANK-L in children with JIA. The higher OPG/RANK-L ratio in JIA might be the result of a compensatory production of OPG. The presence of the T allele of the OPG gene appears to be associated with low BMD.
In this comprehensive study of delayed postpartum preeclampsia, there were few significant differences in the clinical course and no differences in complications in the NOPP subgroup compared to cases with preeclampsia recurring in the late postpartum period.
Stereopsis improves the driving performance only in dynamic situations at intermediate distances.
Dorsal onlay preputial/penile flap urethroplasty is a versatile procedure in the treatment of inflammatory anterior urethral strictures. The dorsal pedicle flap may be anatomically and functionally more logical as compared to the traditional ventrally placed flap.
Prognosis to death or cardiac outcomes for patients with angina alone was similar to those with previous AMI and/or revascularisation, while health status was poorer. The clinical importance of angina should not be underestimated in primary care. Further descriptive research is needed among representative community cohorts of people with angina.
This exploratory study shows that the Veder method has some clear positive effects on behavior and mood of people with dementia when applied by professional actors.
These cases highlight that although barbed sutures provide an attractive means to allow easier and faster laparoscopic suturing, they should be used carefully in inframesocolic surgery and the suture end cut and buried to avoid inadvertent attachment to the small bowel or its mesentery. Barbed suture entanglement should be considered as an uncommon yet potentially serious differential cause for SBO presenting in the early period after laparoscopic surgery where a barbed suture has been used.
The findings that the same genotype was detected for both partners in relatively few couples, and that a history of parenteral exposure was an independent predictor of HCV positivity, suggest that the risk of sexual transmission is low. The sharing of glass syringes may have played an important role in transmission between spouses.
MDT discussion was associated with better treatment receipt, which potentially may improve quality of life for patients with lung cancer. However, it did not improve survival.
Skeletonized BITA grafting can be performed in insulin-treated diabetics at acceptable risk. This approach may confer improved cardiac outcome. Thus, it should be considered in selected patients.
These findings suggest that treatments developed for RCTs are potentially transportable to private practice settings.
For women ≤ 35 years, TP53 mutations, Ki67 and HER2 expressions are strong prognostic factors. The limited prognostic value of hormone receptors suggests that the prognostic markers used in age-unspecified breast cancer may not be completely fit for this population.
Although the effectiveness is limited by low sensitivity, CT may be a valuable tool for evaluation of extrathyroidal invasion of thyroid cancer to adjacent structures.
The diet of patients with HF seems to differ from the diet of persons without HF. These differences are manifested in a lower energy content of diet, lower intake of total fat, omega-3 fatty acids, folic acid and dietary fibre. Most patients with HF have ischaemic aetiology, and therefore should apply the dietary recommendations for patients with dyslipidaemia and high cardiovascular risk. However, their diet for certain parameters was inconsistent with ESC/EAS guidelines (high intake of saturated fatty acids, low intake of dietary fibre).
Our findings suggest that knowledge deficits exist in diagnosis and treatment of cervicitis in adolescent patients and in differentiating between cervicitis and PID. Educational tools, simulated patient exercises, and order sets may be warranted for quality improvement to allow for improved care of this at risk sexually active population.
The real efficacy of propranolol for complicated IH was confirmed by the clearly evident improvement observed in all patients and the absence of non-responders. As global tolerance was also good, propranolol can therefore be considered to be an appropriate first- line treatment for complicated IH.
Encephalocele shows more similarities to spina bifida or anencephaly than it shows differences with respect to characteristics, temporal trend, and impact of fortification. Additional studies should be done to explore the etiologic heterogeneity of encephalocele using better markers of folate status and a wider range of risk factors.
Vaginal childbirth is associated with loss of tenting of the vaginal fornices, independent of levator trauma, and also with impaired anterior vaginal wall support. This evidence suggests the existence of paravaginal defects and may imply a role for such defects in the causation of anterior vaginal wall prolapse.
AFRS was seen to be more aggressive in children with increased fungal load when compared with adults. Typically, AFRS in children was less responsive to treatment with increased recurrence rates.
NT-proBNP reduction ≥ 15% showed better agreement with echocardiographic response compared to clinical response. Neurohormonal response was associated with superior long-term outcome compared to insufficient reduction in NT-proBNP levels.
This study of UK pediatric RBC transfusion practice has demonstrated significant variation in pretransfusion Hb, frequent prescribing in units rather than milliliters, and a high proportion of single transfusions during admissions. Future education and research should target transfusion triggers and prescription volumes for children in all clinical areas.
Although alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and bilirubin levels represented the most reliable predictors of CBDS, false positive and false negative values were common, especially in patients with a history of cholecystitis or pancreatitis, which indicates that other mechanisms were responsible for elevated liver function values in these patients.
A significant number of endoscopically unresectable polyps harbor adenocarcinoma, thereby requiring a formal lymphadenectomy at resection. Caution should be exercised when considering the laparoscopic resection of an endoscopically unresectable polyp as a "learning" case.
We conclude that kidney transplantation using organs from executed prisoners had a clinical outcome similar to that of transplantation performed in our hospital during the same period.
The performance of chest radiography as part of a PEE is most often not justified. The practice is expensive, can violate national and European law, and lacks medical justification.
No association was found between gender equality in companies, measured by register-based index (OGGI), and health. However, perceived gender equality at work positively affected women's self-rated health but not men's. Further investigations are necessary to determine whether the results are fully credible given the contemporary health patterns and positions in the labour market of women and men or whether the results are driven by selection patterns.
The severity of root resorption of lateral incisors cannot be accurately judged from radiographs alone.
This study has demonstrated the correlation between plasma 25 (OH) D levels and childhood asthma. Evidently, this relationship being influenced by multiple factors other than vitamin D, further studies should be conducted to explore the interrelation between all such factors.
Although the MFM-centered provider model appears to have had a positive impact on residents' perceptions of safety and education, it was not associated with significant changes in severe maternal morbidity.
Moderate alcohol intake appears to be positively associated with BMD independently of the type of lifestyle led by women around menopause.
These preclinical data suggest that cabazitaxel could be an effective therapy in CNS and pediatric tumors, supporting ongoing clinical evaluation in these indications.
Height of fall is a poor predictor of major injury.
We found that, in our Unit, clinicians appeared to use prior non-response to clomifene as a reason for prescribing a higher starting dose of gonadotropins in IVF treatment, a practice that is not evidence-based.
Patients with intralobar multifocal NSCLC detected in the resected specimen have a more favorable prognosis after surgical resection than might be predicted by their stage T4 designation. Five-year survival rates, especially in T4N0 patients, more closely approximate those with stages IB or II NSCLC.
Micro-CT can determine the volume and location of wear of retrieved tibial liners. Because the magnitude of the manufacturing tolerances was approximately half the magnitude of the total wear on average, accounting for the potential influence of tolerances is important to accurately measure volumetric wear if the unworn (preimplantation) geometry of the insert is unknown. Without accounting for tolerances, this technique may not be applicable for retrievals with a short followup that have low wear. However, application of micro-CT could be of value in determining the exact location of wear in knee simulator studies in which the same insert is measured repeatedly and manufacturing tolerances are not a concern.
The variety in severity of the affective episodes shows that bipolar disorders, similar to unipolar disorders, are expressed longitudinally during their course as a dimensional illness. The similarities of the clinical phenotypes of BP-I and BP-II, suggest that BP-I and BP-II are likely to exist in a disease spectrum. They are, however, sufficiently distinct in terms of long-term course (i.e., BP-I with more severe episodes, and BP-II more chronic with a predominantly depressive course), that they are best classified as two separate subtypes in the official classification systems.
In conclusion, obesity does not seem to have a prominent effect on clinical periodontal parameters but it does have many correlations with circulating inflammatory molecules. As suggested in the literature, increased levels of leptin and IL-6 in the obese group might be one explanation for a possible relationship between obesity and periodontal disease. A prospective study is warranted to clarify, in greater detail, the effects of obesity on periodontal health.
Strengthening pre-enrollment medical and physical examinations, regular measurement of weight, height and BMI and laying emphasis on important lifestyle modifications early in the formative years are important to prevent development of non-communicable disease later in life.
Supplementation with L-glutathione exerted a better neuroprotective effect than L-glutamine and may prevent the development of enteric diabetic neuropathy.
Fetal echogenic bowel in IUGR fetuses is not associated with development of neonatal necrotizing enterocolitis. In these fetuses, vasodilatation in the superior mesenteric artery and celiac trunk have been demonstrated.
Low-lactose premature infant formula improved feeding tolerance. There was no evidence that LLF altered the incidence of NEC, but the incidence of NEC in this study was too low to draw conclusions.
Analysis of V/BSA ratio is a better estimation of the size of the thyroid gland than the evaluation of thyroid size based on traditional ultrasound reference values. Summing up, relating the size of the thyroid gland to BSA is a good, sensitive tool for such analysis, and can be used for comparisons of different populations, as well as surveys conducted at different time points.
Although our results indicate a relationship between maternal height and cervical length in our population, maternal height seems to have only limited value in identifying women to be screened for shorter cervical length in a low risk asymptomatic population.
The cancer risk is similar for patients with one or two nodules over 1 cm and decreases with three or more thyroid nodules.
Animal hands-on courses of transplantation surgery are one of the best options to learn and practice different operations and techniques in a near to clinical simulated model. Regular participation in such courses with a focus on practical issues can provide optimal opportunities for trainees with the advantage of direct mentoring and feedback.
Patients with stable coronary artery disease can safely engage in eccentric endurance training, which appears to be as efficient as usual concentric training, with reduced oxygen consumption.
Phacoemulsification in eyes with larger size of polar opacity has significant risk of posterior capsule rupture.
Although our data are based on a relatively small group of patients there is evidence that VFC resulting from VGB treatment is not reversible in epilepsy patients after stopping the drug.
Birth weight has reached a plateau in Hong Kong despite a continuing increase in the regions' socioeconomic status, and evidence of improved nutritional well-being.
For hemodynamically stable neonates in a supine position, there were no significant differences between skin sensor temperatures on abdomen, flank, or axilla or between skin sensor temperatures and a digital axillary temperature. This may increase nurses' confidence that various sites will produce accurate temperature readings.
Although overall numbers in anesthesia publications do not suggest a significant decline, the number of RCTs decreased during the years 2000-2004. The quality of anesthesia research appears to be comparable to those in other medical specialties, with larger institutions conducting RCTs and smaller institutions publishing more case reports.
NAC did not increase the complication rate after IBR using an expander. However, for reconstruction using autologous tissue, more data are needed.
Six patients were identified at risk for seven known herb-drug interactions. The prevalence of undisclosed herbal supplement use and lack of research on these supplements suggest that more patients may be at risk.
Older age, peritoneal signs, and high BUN are associated with I/N, suggesting an ability to predict which patients need operation. CT findings traditionally suggestive of ischemic PN/PVG, however, do not diagnose I/N accurately enough to reliably identify patients needing operation.
The low probability of lymph node involvement in NSCLC<1 cm or showing glucose uptake<2 suggests lymphadenectomy could be avoided. A randomized trial should be performed to validate our data.
Diprivan, Recofol, Diprofol, and Propofol Abbott are equally effective as anesthesia induction drugs for dilation and curettage, with a similar incidence of adverse effects. Because cost limitations have become a significant factor in medical care, the choice of drug in this group should be based solely on cost considerations.
The results indicate that the PSD clinical picture comprised, in general, symptoms of mild/moderate intensity, especially those considered as pillars for the diagnosis of depression: depressed mood, loss of pleasure and lack of interest. Given the imprecision of boundaries that separate the clinical forms of depression from subclinical and nonpathological forms, or even from the concepts of demoralization and adjustment disorders, we situate PSD in a complex biopsychosocial context in which a better understanding of its psychopathological profile could provide diagnostic and therapeutic alternatives best suited to the difficult reality experienced by stroke patients.
The average length of stay is substantially affected by admission rates, with hospitals who admit a greater proportion of infants appearing to have a shorter uncorrected length of stay. We propose that a single corrected measure for length of stay should be used when assessing the efficiency of care because it is unaffected by variations in local admission rates and is adjusted for local population size.
Small-dose ketamine combined with morphine for PCA provides no benefit to patients undergoing major orthopedic surgery and cannot be recommended for routine use.
Although cosmetic outcome was better with the TA approach, the longer operation time, aggravated subjective voice outcomes, paresthesia, and swallowing function need to be considered in selecting the operative approach.
Despite similar clinical presentation of HCC, substantial racial differences exist with regard to management and outcomes. Black patients are less likely to receive surgery for HCC and have worse long-term survival, despite similar perioperative quality metrics. This difference in long-term survival may highlight neighborhood, cultural, or biological differences between races.
Complex combat injuries to proximal extremity vessels should be routinely shunted at forward-deployed Echelon II facilities as part of the resuscitative, damage control process.
Cerebral palsy individuals appear to present impaired adequate hydration due to compromised oral motor performance.
Potentially important differences exist between the measures the general public say they support to address obesity, which favour personal responsibility and education, and those they believe will be effective, which include more environmental interventions.
The authors found that African Americans in this study preferred shared decision making as much as whites and were more likely to report initiating more discussions with their doctors about their diabetes care. This research suggests that, among diabetes patients receiving care at community health centers, patient preference or patient behaviors may be an unlikely cause of racial differences in shared decision making.
Pre-surgical re-assessment of PET scans is worthwhile in epilepsy patients who undergo ECoG, especially when results were reported as negative before. Visual re-assessment itself has a higher combined specificity, sensitivity and accuracy than SPM analysis alone. SPM analysis could be used as a guide for visual (re-)assessment, because of its high sensitivity.
The NCSP, which reduced out-of-pocket payment, may not decrease absolute gap although it leads to overall increases in the uptake of cancer screening and decreases in relative inequalities. Further investigations are needed to understand barriers that prevent the low-income population from attending cancer screening.
Radiation dose is positively associated with overall survival in patients with medically inoperable T1-3N0 NSCLC, though long-term results remain poor. The nodal failure rate is low and does not seem to be due to high-dose incidental irradiation.
Satisfaction exhibits a complex relationship with age, with scores increasing until age 65 to 80 and then declining. This relationship was consistent across individual satisfaction scales, but was modified by health status. The results suggest that age and health status should be taken into account when interpreting patient satisfaction data.
In this dataset, we could find no evidence of an order effect when modules on BPH-specific and overall health status were combined in different sequences.
Bell's palsy seems to usually coincide with the narrower fallopian tube of the patient. This anatomical detail, supported by previous MRI studies, seems to indicate that an asymmetry between the right and left fallopian tube might be a necessary pathogenetic mechanism for the development of a facial nerve edema into Bell's palsy in the narrower fallopian canal. More studies on large healthy populations are needed before a notable facial canal asymmetry is linked to a higher risk for developing Bell's palsy.
Our data suggest that 20 cases of HAL PDD are required to achieve a good interobserver agreement between inexperienced and experienced operator, and excellent agreement is achieved after 30 cases. The false positive rate of inexperienced operators was comparable to the experts and showed a gradual decrease.
No functional advantage for segmentectomy was observed during long-term follow-up, possibly due to compensatory lung growth after lobectomy.
The results allow the hypothesis that women are more sensitive to smoking than men. Platelets in male smokers are less sensitive to smoking--the study showed no significant changes in the parameters.
Family physicians play a role in adolescent mental health care. The prevalence of mental health problems seems higher among adolescents who attend youth clinics. Given the high prevalence of these problems during adolescence, we suggest on the basis of our results that screening for these disorders in primary care could be improved.
Survival while on support and after heart transplantation did not differ significantly in patients supported with paracorporeal BiVADs, implantable BiVADs, or the TAH. Patients undergoing prolonged support (>90 days) tended to have improved survival when supported with TAH compared with BiVADs, which may be related to a lower incidence of neurologic events.
We speculate that in certain fields of health care, young workers are at the greatest risk of TB.
The vasoplegia accompaning plexic block lasted 6 hours after anesthesia induction. Whereas this longstanding haemodynamic effect is beneficial for early patency of vascular access for hemodialysis, needs to be ascertained by further investigations.
Categorizing very young children with ASD in terms of biological, clinical and familial variables can be instrumental in predicting short-term evolution. This exploratory study highlights the importance of a precise characterization and thorough analysis of interactions among biological and clinical variables, in order to predict the developmental evolution in children with ASD.
Visceral osteopathic treatment of the abdomen did not accelerate meconium excretion in VLBW (very low birth weight)-infants. However infants in the osteopathic group had a longer time to full enteral feedings and a longer hospital stay, which could represent adverse effects. Based on our trial results, we cannot recommend visceral osteopathic techniques in VLBW-infants.
Although a large number of caregivers administer OTCs, knowledge of these medications, and accuracy and correctness of dosing remain a marked concern. Improved caregiver education on the accuracy and correctness of dosing OTCs is necessary.
Transabdominal sutures performed better than tacks in the acute setting. No absorbable fixation device demonstrated superior efficacy within its class. Spiral titanium tacks provided better fixation than absorbable tacks at both perpendicular and acute angles. Moreover, titanium spiral tacks deployed at 30° performed equal to or better than absorbable tacks fired perpendicularly to the tissue. It appears that spiral titanium tacks should be strongly considered for cases in which perpendicular tack deployment cannot be achieved.
Though numerous family medicine residencies seek to produce rural physicians, most programs required fewer than 8 weeks of rural training. Programs varied substantially in rurally located training and rurally relevant content. Students seeking rural training should examine program curricula carefully.
This is the first histomicrobiologic study to show gastric cells invaded by H. pylori in patients with H. pylori infection confirmed by real-time polymerase chain reaction.
Smaller joint flexion during the first part of landing impact , and higher rate of knee moment development during the eccentric phases of the spike-jump landing sequence, together with higher knee angular velocities, might be risk factors in the development of patellar tendinopathy in volleyball players.
Our findings confirm our clinical observation of an increased rate of joint hypermobility in patients with VUR. We speculate that an altered composition of the connective tissue may contribute to the severity of the (pre-existing) VUR phenotype.
Our study showed that intraoperative methylene blue test for leakage is a very sensitive and effective method for detecting leakage during sleeve gastrectomy and should be done routinely in all cases. Routine postoperative contrast study is not needed to detect leakage unless clinically indicated in selected cases, and in such cases contrast-enhanced CT scans are the modality of choice.
The results affirm the interpretation that higher levels of activity of the superficial flexor muscles are an indicator of reduced deep cervical flexor activity in the craniocervical flexion test. Further studies of neuromuscular and movement strategies used by people with neck pain to compensate for poorer activation of the deep cervical flexors will inform best clinical assessment.
In this pilot effort, we found that EGS patients required more diagnostic effort initially and generated more relative value units, operations, laboratory tests, and new medication orders and had more complications during the course of their care. Addition of EGS patients to a trauma service consumes more per-patient resources than trauma patients.
Hepatitis in HCV-HIV-coinfected patients following treatment with potent antiretroviral therapy may reflect restoration of anti-HCV immune responses rather than increased HCV replication or a hepatotoxic effect of antiretroviral therapy.
Despite modest changes in cognitive performance, these results do not support the efficacy of computerized cognitive training as an adjunctive therapy for smoking cessation.
Our findings suggest that the pathogenesis of SS is probably mediated through helper T cell type 1 cytokines (IL-2, IFN-gamma) rather than helper T cell type 2 cytokines (IL-4).
The age of the patients with PTC seems to play a role in the morphological manifestations of the neoplasm, which is related to the prognostic outcome.
We demonstrated that IL-6 levels are increased in the study group, especially in the operated patients, however, that high BMI and atopy have no effects on this fact and that atopy is not associated with IS in the clinical study.
Submandibular US is a promising technique that can be used as a practical alternative to sialography in the classification of SS.
This paper questions the assumption that GPs are best placed to commission health services in a way that meets quality standards and leads to equitable outcomes. There is little evidence to suggest that GPs will succeed where others have failed and a risk that, without top-down performance management, service improvement will be patchy, leading to greater, not reduced, inequity.
For low-income persons in Delaware, provider continuity for the maternal-child unit is associated with higher completion rates for early childhood immunizations.
Overall the findings of the study suggest that positive and negative assertive behaviours are not related to caring skills.
In high-volume centers, with strict operation indication, sufficient preoperative evaluation and careful surgical maneuvers, endoscopic areola approach is a safe and effective method for reoperative thyroid surgery, allowing to provide a better cosmetic result and reduce intraoperative blood loss compared with open approach.
Metal lawn and garden edging in landscaped neighborhoods presents a previously undescribed laceration danger to children. Some lacerations sustained from the metal lawn edging are extensive, receiving either multiple layer closure and/or the need for subspecialty consultation.
The results provide evidence that children with higher total EQ as well as higher scores of intrapersonal, interpersonal, adaptability and stress management scales can generally be flexible and effective in coping in the dental setting. Higher score in stress management subscale seems to be related to better control over affective information including anxiety compared with other subscales in stressful situations. Overall, they behave and cooperate better than children with lower scores.
In this study, the oxidative/antioxidant status was impaired in favor of oxidative stress in CRC patients. This observation was not confirmed by IMA measurement. Further studies are needed to establish the relationship between IMA and oxidative stress parameters in CRC and other cancers.
Work-related factors such as heavy lifting do, to some extent, contribute to care-seeking with MP. We suggest that asking the patient about physical workloads should be routinely included in consultations dealing with MP.
A patient navigator can increase mammography adherence in a previously nonadherent population by making the screening appointment while the patient is on the phone.
These two abnormalities can both be inherited, but their association has not been previously documented.
Although certain preoperative factors are associated with the need to convert a LC for acute cholecystitis, they have limited predictive power. Factors with higher predictive power are obtained only during LC. The need to convert can only be established during an attempt at LC. Preoperative and operative factors associated with total and infectious complications have no predictive power.
The use of a kaolin-impregnated intraoperative trauma pad seems to be an effective and inexpensive method to reduce intraoperative blood loss and transfusion volume in pediatric spinal deformity surgery.
High serum lipids predicted incident radiating LBP, consistent with the atherosclerosis-LBP hypothesis.
Symptoms of depression in adolescence strongly predict an episode of major depression in adulthood, even among adolescents without major depression.
Core clerkship grading systems and the percentage to which institutions grade students as having achieved the highest performance level vary greatly among U.S. medical schools. Within institutions, significant variability exists among clerkships in the percentage of the highest grade given, which makes interpersonal comparison based on core clerkship grades difficult and suggests that this method may not be a reliable indicator of performance.
Psychiatrists believe that important differences do exist between available antidepressant compounds. Such opinions are divergent from limited controlled data but may be influenced by a wide range of factors other than direct clinical experience. The role of such surveys in ongoing evaluation of clinical practice is emphasised.
The addition of brief dynamic psychotherapy to treatment with clomipramine significantly reduces the relapse rate of panic disorder compared with clomipramine treatment alone.
LVAD implantation in LVNC can be performed with low intrahospital complication rates. However, we observed a high incidence of pump thrombosis during follow-up, possibly related to thromboembolic predisposition by the underlying LVNC. Therefore, careful management of anticoagulation appears to be critical in these patients.
Near peers, recognized for their humanism, demonstrated significant influence in deepening medical students' reflections surrounding patient interactions or humanistic development. Overall, students preferred facilitated to non-facilitated peer feedback forums. This model holds promise for enhancing self-reflection in medical education, but needs further exploration to determine behavioral effects.
RPOC-associated infertility is primarily related to the presence of trophoblastic tissue rather than the surgical intervention per se in the gravid uterus.
The between-group distinctions are consistent with the possibility (derived from the women's health literature) that phyto-oestrogens may counteract a decline of short-wavelength-sensitive cone-mediated response among postmenopausal women. These results suggest another potential application for SWAP outside its original intended purpose as a glaucoma test. Future studies should assess whether phyto-oestrogen consumption is most beneficial for women who are sufficiently young and/or not too far beyond menopause.
Despite differences in approach, target population and context, the core finding was that health promotion strategies, competencies and frameworks were transferable to action on climate change in these health care settings.
Patients undergoing successful anti-HBV therapy with potent nucleos(t)ide analogues seem to indirectly benefit from suppression of HDV replication, albeit not very efficiently. Hypothetically, a significant and sustained reduction in serum HDV RNA might only be seen when a reduction in HBV covalently closed circular DNA or HBV surface antigen is achieved, which may require long periods of successful anti-HBV therapy. To our knowledge, this is the first evidence of the benefit of potent anti-HBV nucleos(t)ide analogue therapy in CDH.
Resident involvement in breast cancer operations was associated with longer operative times but did not affect any other perioperative or cancer outcome in our institution. This information can be used to reassure program directors, attending surgeons, and patients if they have questions or concerns about the safety or effectiveness of cancer surgery when there is surgical resident participation.
Trazodone has a unique pharmacology, which may be an advantage in palliating symptoms; however, little evidence is available through cohort or randomized trials to give guidance to its use.
Gaps exist between state PE-related policies and implementation in schools. However, schools' PE requirement seems to improve children's PA with some gender variation. The association between schools' PE requirement and children's weight is less clear.
As Kauppila score correlates with RRI in non-dialysis CKD patients, it could be a fast, convenient and relatively inexpensive tool for estimating RRI, and consequently the intrarenal vascular status, but further research is warranted.
Pain reduction and improvement in quality of life are the most important treatment goals. Wide variation in treatment indicates that no single drug is particularly good for managing chronic pain, and suggests that current treatment is not evidence-based. Differences between the groups imply that first-line treatment is more cautious and conventional. The key limitations of this survey include its small sample size, informal implementation and lack of detail regarding the respondents surveyed.
In the era of aggressive medical management for ulcerative colitis with both steroids and cyclosporine, the complications of immunosuppression may be significant, including opportunistic pneumonia. Prophylaxis against P. carinii pneumonia with sulfa antibiotics should be considered, especially in patients for whom proctocolectomy is a potential end point.
Activity dynamics can have a significant influence on knee kinematics, and have a greater effect on the kinematics of unconstrained meniscal-bearing prostheses than rotating-platform knee prostheses.
We consider that 25(OH) vitamin D3 supplementation of women could both decrease maternal bone resorption and lead to enhanced bone mass in offspring during later life. Since women are prone to 25(OH) vitamin D3 insufficiency, we suggest higher doses of 25(OH) vitamin D3 should be given to pregnant subjects.
The decreasing trend in CHD in Sweden during the last few decades is not due to an increasing number of immigrants from 'low-risk countries'. On the contrary, the immigrants in the present study seem to have a worse CVD risk factor profile than Swedes.
Our data suggests a low prevalence of celiac disease in African-derived Brazilian populations.
Our data suggest that high body fatness is a promoter of adenoma growth. Similar results were obtained with the caliper and Futrex 5000, which lends credibility to this study. For repeated documentation, a larger study population should be investigated. To our knowledge, this is the first case-control study to investigate the relationship between body composition and growth of adenoma by follow-up in situ over 3 yr.
Self-harm incidence was influenced by proximity to hospital services, population density and social fragmentation; however, the strongest area-level predictor of self-harm was deprivation.
This study indicated there was a high level of body mismatch in desk-chair combinations even with the adjustable imported furniture available in the local market. Anthropometric data of Saudi students should be collected from different regions in the Kingdom and then design and development of desk-chair combinations could follow the development of a standard procedure to adapt to the needs of Saudi school children.
These findings suggest that examining the midline blocks from hysterectomy specimens will result in the identification of CIGN lesions in over 90% of patients, either because the CIGN lesion is present in the midline or because an associated squamous CIN lesion will be identified, which will result in the examination of the entire cervix, with the consequent identification of the CIGN lesion.
Average total charges for vaginal deliveries [maternal plus total baby charges that includes NICU utilization (X=$17 624.38)] may be higher than average total charges for Cesarean sections [maternal plus total baby charges that includes NICU utilization (X=$13 805.47)]. Specifically, maternal race--being African American--was indirectly associated with overall charges through its association with mode of delivery and NICU utilization patterns. The presence of maternal co-morbidities--Herpes Simplex Virus, hypertension and diabetes--most probably influenced babies' hospital stay charges as well as NICU charges when transferred to NICU following both vaginal and Cesarean section deliveries. Thus, prenatal care targeting co-morbidities management may reduce the odds of a newborn's transfer to NICU thus avoiding greater lengths of stay, medical care and charges. Recommendations for obstetrical practices as well as health care policy on their charges should not assume that Cesarean section deliveries are always costlier than vaginal deliveries.
SCI represents a major risk factor for the development of cholelithiasis, and it should be considered a late, secondary complication of a spinal cord injury.
E-prescribing technology solutions may provide opportunities for earlier and enhanced communication between geriatric patients and their clinicians; geriatric patients may require more education to appreciate the value of e-prescribing.
The main effect of CAD acting as an arbitrator of discordant double-reading opinions is to increase the recall rate, significantly above what is found when arbitration is performed by an independent third reader. Using CAD as an arbitrator may be an option to deal with discordant double-reading opinions when no other method of consensus or arbitration is available.
Multiple common symptoms in childhood are associated with an increased risk of chronic widespread pain in adulthood. However, the magnitude of this increased risk is modest, and reports of multiple symptoms in childhood are uncommon. Thus the "early pain pathway" phenomenon is applicable only to a small proportion of individuals with chronic widespread pain.
Brain activity in response to viewing one's mother may be diagnostic of depression. Functional magnetic resonance imaging using personalized paradigms has the potential to provide objective assessments, even when behavioral measures are not informative. Further, fMRI based diagnostic algorithms may enhance our understanding of the neural mechanisms of depression by identifying distinctive neural features of the illness.
Even if SLN status remains the most important prognostic factor for melanoma patients, progressive disease after a negative SLNB is a relatively frequent event. However, in our opinion, only a part of negative SLNB patients with metastatic spreading should be considered as false negative (7.75%).
The practice of FGM appears to be still highly prevalent and resistant to change probably due to deep rooted socio-cultural factors. Strategies such as public education campaigns highlighting its negative impact on health and disregard for human rights should be evolved.
Medicare administrative claims are reliable for assessment of mammography utilization and have become more accurate over time. Medicare claims data also provide a mechanism for designating mammography as screening or diagnostic, which subsequently may allow accurate description of a woman's screening history.
We find no evidence that the declining smoking prevalence in Australia (over the last decade) has been accompanied by a 'hardening' of continuing smokers in terms of rates of mental disorders and socioeconomic disadvantage.
Preeclamptic patients with abnormal serum screen analytes are more likely to have small-for-gestational age newborns, deliver preterm and have pre-delivery laboratory abnormalities.
These findings suggest that both pregnant women and non-pregnant women of reproductive age are being prioritized within the household for net use. However, behavior change communication strategies are needed to achieve ITN use goals for pregnant women.
Overall, inequalities in mortality in New Zealand did not widen more rapidly than in northern European countries. However, rapid social and economic change may have affected trends in CVD mortality among low educated men and women, and especially the ethnic minority groups.
This study shows widely prevalent low HDL-C levels in high-risk patients across the spectrum of LDL-C levels despite statin therapy. There was no correlation between the LDL-C and HDL-C levels implying their independent relationship and, thus, the need to treat them independently.
(1) The influence of sperm morphologic pattern as a prognosticator of fertilization outcome is established in major part as a determinant of sperm binding ability to the zona pellucida; (2) the hemizona assay provides a robust index that is highly predictive of the potential of human gametes to achieve fertilization and highlights its use in infertility and contraception testing.
Our study suggests that more severe forms of diabetes are associated with lower PSA levels and confirms the magnitude of reduction in PSA levels in diabetic men overall. The observed PSA reduction parallels reported risk reduction of prostate cancer among diabetic men.
Although some boys with CDGP may be considered the candidates for rGH treatment according to FDA recommendations, none of the available methods of prediction are sufficiently sensitive to reliably recruit 14- to 16-year-old boys whose final height will fall at or below 160 cm.
Myocardial viability study immediately after contrast injection is too early to evaluate the extent of myocardial injury.
MRI prior to RP did not reduce the overall risk for PSMs in this patient cohort. However, at subgroup analysis we observed a possible benefit of MRI in patients with cT1.
The treatment is well tolerated, no higher grade late effects were observed. Considering the negative pre-selection, LC, PFS and OS are promising. While histology and site of origin significantly influenced control and survival rates, resection status did not, potentially due to the effect of dose escalation.
GLP-1 exerts its effect on gastric emptying, appetite, food intake, and glucagon secretion directly, although secretion of amylin may contribute to some of these effects in healthy control subjects.
Penetrance of the c804 mutation is highly variable. Medullary thyroid carcinoma associated with this genotype has aggressive potential. Prophylactic thyroidectomy in childhood is a viable approach.
Although the interobserver reliability of the manually assessed ADIM was high, the concurrent and discriminative validity were both low for examining the preferential activity of the deep abdominal muscles. Neither the manually assessed ADIM nor the ultrasound testing discriminated between participants with LBP and healthy subjects regarding preferential activity of the transversus muscle as this ability/inability was also present in healthy subjects.
Our results show that the use of brassiere cups during breast radiation therapy leads to improvements in the main dosimetric factors analyzed. Furthermore, modifications to standard irradiation protocols are not required. In summary, we consider the technique of using breast cups with radiation therapy highly appropriate when treating breast cancer patients with large or pendulous breasts.
Our study concludes that the steady-state fBOLD signal intensity is dependent on and inversely related to the hBOLD signals. Previous reports documenting independent and additive relationships between hBOLD and fBOLD may likely be due to transient-state observations.
R or R+IFRT have demonstrated a better long-term control of the disease without significant additional toxicities.
The selection, supervision, support and continuous training of CHW are as important as the training provided.
Payment structure did not significantly influence change in physical functioning at discharge. Future studies, using a larger sample- size, should consider the effects of structural elements, process, and patient behavior on therapy treatments and physical functioning outcomes.
Mainland Chinese and Singaporean Chinese have different preferences for EQ-5D-5L health states, supporting the development of local value sets for the EQ-5D-5L instrument for the two populations.
The majority of impalpable PCs were low-volume, well-differentiated tumors corresponding to clinically insignificant neoplasms. Similar characteristics could be attributed to most of the impalpable carcinomas detected after prostatectomy in clinical practice.
In pregnancies with a history-indicated cerclage and subsequently diagnosed ultrasound cervical shortening before 24 weeks, placement of a reinforcing cerclage is associated with earlier delivery than expectant management.
It is suggested to complement the use of the MacNew both at T1 and T2 with a brief anxiety and depression measure, which is valid and responsive for different groups of cardiac rehabilitation patients.
Clinical or biochemical autoimmune stigmata are present in 40% of patients with ICP. Autoimmune mechanisms may be frequent in idiopathic pancreatitis.
Our data show a lack of association between aPS/PT antibodies and LA in APS patients with recurrent pregnancy loss. In the evaluation of these patients, there may be redundancy in testing all three markers as the aPT and aPS assays formed part of the aPS/PT antibody repertoire.
The present findings suggest that mast cells can play a part in the development of the myocardial fibrosis that occurs in the cardiac ventricles with hypertensive cardiac hypertrophy. In addition, the present results suggest that the ability of quinapril to interfere with mast cells might be involved in its cardioreparative properties.
Our study results show that hyaluronic acid against chondrotoxicity of bupivacaine may have a protective effect in a time and dose-dependent manner.
This study provides suggestive evidence that a multi-disciplinary Spine Team may be effective in limiting disability. No conclusion can be drawn about the Spine Team's effectiveness in limiting attrition. Additional study is warranted to examine the effect of the timing of the introduction of multidisciplinary care for work-disabling spine conditions.
Our findings provide support for the proposal that excess food consumption and excess drug use appear to compete over shared neurobiology even when the motivation to self-medicate with either food or substances might be elevated.
The data suggest that no difference exists in examination scores between students assigned to a busy general surgery block versus those students assigned to slow blocks.
No significant differences were observed in any of the outcome variables by age group. There was, however, a nonsignificant suggestion of poorer outcome in those who were>60 years of age.
The results indicate that anti-EC antibody is another marker for a subset of recurrent spontaneous aborters who may have activation of hemostasis and fibrinolysis as a mechanism involved in their losses.
SPT is a sensitive technique for detecting sensitization to LTP and profilin. Its results are similar to those of in vitro techniques, especially in patients with negative SPT results for peach LTP and palm tree profilin.
This article analyzes the clinical and histological features of noninfectious superficial lymphangitis after arthropod bite, a benign underrecognized condition mimicking common bacterial lymphangitis. Physicians should be aware of this benign reaction to avoid the useless prescription of antibiotics.
We found a direct relationship between tumor volume and overall survival, which may be used to stratify rectal tumors for neoadjuvant therapy. A larger prospective study is required to confirm this correlation.
Patients who have less general education have less knowledge of epilepsy. The introduction of a nurse specialist in epilepsy is associated with a significant increase in patient reports that enough advice has been provided. Nurse intervention appears to help those with the least knowledge of epilepsy improve their knowledge scores.
This is the first report in which serum levels of GM-CSF, carcinoembriyogenic and peripheral leukocyte counts have been simultaneously evaluated in colorectal cancer patients. We found significantly elevated GM-CSF but the results suggested that serum GM-CSF may not be useful for clinical information in prognosis as a tumor marker in colorectal cancer.
The extensive lesions seen on many of the molars displayed cuspal enamel hypoplasia (CEH). Many of these teeth also exhibited Molar Incisal Hypomineralisation (MIH).
Both short- and long-term cardiac outcomes of OPCAB are not influenced by age at operation.
Children and adolescents with diabetes mellitus show an increased prevalence of epileptic seizures. For unknown reasons, there is an association between epilepsy and diabetic ketoacidosis in children with type 1 diabetes mellitus.
The group of patients who received kidneys from donors younger than 70 years achieved better transplantation outcomes. Nevertheless, kidneys from older donors represent an excellent alternative for older recipients.
A plateau in muscle O2 extraction was demonstrated in coincidence with MLSS during an incremental cycling exercise, confirming the hypothesis that this functional parameter can be accurately estimated with a quantitative NIRS device. The main advantages of NIRSMLSS over lactate-based techniques are the noninvasiveness and the time/cost efficiency.
CD4 testing alone never maximized health benefits regardless of resource limitations. Programmes routinely performing virologic testing but deferring cART initiation may increase health benefits by reallocating monitoring resources towards earlier cART initiation.
This is the first 5-year report on trauma in Switzerland. Trauma workload was similar to other European countries. Despite high levels of healthcare, mortality exceeds published rates by>50%. Regardless of the importance of a multidisciplinary approach, trauma remains a surgical disease and needs dedicated surgical resources.
Local recurrence of prostate cancer after radiation usually occurs at the same site as the dominant primary tumor at baseline, suggesting supplementary focal therapy aimed at enhancing local tumor control would be a rational addition to management.
Aperistalsis with complete LES relaxation on manometry is not necessarily an early manifestation of classic achalasia. However, this condition does not preclude a diagnosis of achalasia or a good response to achalasia therapy.
Biliary cystadenomas classically contain mesenchymal stroma similar to ovarian tissue. It now appears that cystadenomas without mesenchymal stroma appear to be more akin to similar cystic lesions of the pancreas, and may represent a dissimilar neoplasm. Therefore, malignant transformation can occur, so complete excision is recommended.
Genetic health messages in the mass media may not be effective in promoting (intentions to engage in) preventive behaviour due to their low perceived personal relevance by the public. Hence, identifying strategies to increase personal relevance for genetic education is needed.
WW for IH leads to high crossover rates with significantly greater incidence of intraoperative perforations, fistulas, and mortality, than in the OT group, particularly in patients who require emergency repair of IH owing to incarceration.
Hospital and surgeon volume effects on coronary artery bypass grafting outcomes are interdependent, and therefore hospital coronary artery bypass grafting volume per se is not a reliable marker of quality. Instead, outcome quality markers should rely on thorough risk-adjustment based on detailed clinical databases, possibly including annual and cumulative surgeon volume.
The color-coded parametric maps (CCPMs) showed a significantly higher DA compared to TSIC, in particular the sensitivity could be increased. Therefore, the CCPM method is a feasible approach to assessing dynamic data in MRM and condenses several imaging series into one parametric map.
The results of LC in patients aged 65 to 69 years are comparable with those previously reported in younger patients. Patients older than 70 years had a 2-fold increase in complicated biliary tract disease and conversion rates, but a low mortality rate (2%) compared with results of other authors (12%), despite an increase in American Society of Anesthesiologists classification. Increased technical experience with LC favorably affected outcomes over time. Early diagnosis and treatment prior to onset of complications are necessary for further improvement in the outcomes of elderly patients undergoing LC.
We conclude that payers moving toward value-based cost sharing should consider consequences beyond direct medical expenses.
The use of regional anesthesia in patients with COPD is associated with lower incidences of composite morbidity, pneumonia, prolonged ventilator dependence, and unplanned postoperative intubation.
Previously, LBBB was believed to be characterized by reduced glucose metabolism relative to perfusion in the septum; however, this is not always the case in ICM. LBBB is not associated with septal R-MM in>30% of this patient population. Absence of this finding was often associated with lateral wall perfusion defects, suggesting an alteration in the metabolic demand on the septum. This may have implications for HF therapies such as resynchronization and requires further study.
Only the screw nearest the gap had significant effect on torsional and failure stiffness but not axial stiffness. Construct mechanics depended on the type of screw placed in this position. This screw nearest the fracture dictates working length stiffness when the working length itself is constant and in turn determines overall construct stiffness in osteoporotic bone.
Peyronie's disease is more common than we might think; furthermore it can be diagnosed among young patients. According to our results, cigarette smoking and blood hypertension may be considered statically significant risk factors for developing PD. On the contrary diabetes seems not to be a risk factor for PD. According to our results PD should be sought also in young patients. Further studies are necessary to confirm that removing the indicated risk factors may reduce the incidence of PD.
Some biochemical markers of mucosal toxicity change significantly during treatment. Further studies must investigate the timing of changes of these biochemical markers, their relationship to gastrointestinal physiological change and the radiotherapy dose delivered to the gastrointestinal tract and whether changes in markers acutely can predict the degree of long-term gastrointestinal dysfunction.
Efforts to reduce HIV transmission among PWID and NIDUs may reduce AIDS and AIDS-related mortality among heterosexuals. More research is needed at metropolitan area, network, and individual levels into HIV bridging across key populations and how interventions in one key population affect HIV epidemics in other key populations.
While some patients in the epidemiological sample would have been excluded from the drug trial, patients in the two studies were similar on several key variables.
Informed decision-making is significantly poorer in patients aged 65 years or older than in younger patients. Clinicians should communicate clearly about the benefits and burdens of dialysis to older adults and provide an opportunity for them to understand the significant trade-offs that dialysis may require.
A positive surgical margin does not necessarily mean that cancer remains in the renal remnant in most cases. Therefore, radical nephrectomy or re-resection of the margin is overtreatment in many cases, but a small percentage of patients will harbor residual malignancy. Clinical correlation is recommended before reexcision or completion nephrectomy after a positive surgical margin, with careful consideration of the impact on subsequent renal function weighed against the possibility of residual disease.
The surgical method of colon management after resection for penetrating trauma does not affect the incidence of abdominal complications, irrespective of associated risk factors. Severe fecal contamination, transfusion of>or = 4 units of blood within the first 24 hours, and single-agent antibiotic prophylaxis are independent risk factors for abdominal complications. In view of these findings, the reduced quality of life, and the need for a subsequent operation in colostomy patients, primary anastomosis should be considered in all such patients.
We found that the process of mapping an academically rigorous epidemiology training program (the PMR) to the AEC was feasible and useful. It permitted us to identify training strengths and gaps in our program and consider modifications that will strengthen the level of competency of our physician graduates.
These results suggest that ultrasonography may be a useful adjunct to safe subarachnoid anaesthesia.
Candidates who take the spring FISHE do better on the ABP-HE than those who do not. Most fellows passed the first attempted ABP-HE regardless of FISHE performance. Whether this is due to fellows making use of the FISHE as a self-evaluation tool to help identify and then correct their knowledge deficiencies remains to be determined.
Low educational level is associated with comparable risk as established risk factors for CHD mortality. Incorporation of educational level into risk-based guidelines for treatment could potentially reduce socioeconomic disparities in CHD by lowering thresholds for treatment.
These observations support earlier findings suggesting the presence of tachyphylaxis occurring after repeated antidepressant drug exposures. Possible mechanisms of tachyphylaxis may include genetic predisposition for non-response, physiological adaptation after repeated antidepressant exposures, and inherent illness and pharmacokinetic heterogeneity.
The treatment-seeking status of overweight youth was notably associated with low social well-being, which may therefore be the main motive for seeking treatment. Other HRQoL domains were not consistently reduced in treatment-seekers. Our results further indicate that perceived overweight rather than actual overweight impacts HRQoL in youth with a modest excess weight. These results have implications for interventions in overweight youth and in individuals who are dissatisfied with their weight.
The finding that patients who had a high preoperative priority score were more likely to have a good outcome suggests that the priority system was accurately identifying patients at greatest need for surgery. These findings also suggest that outcome from corneal transplant surgery is best measured as a combination of clinical indices and patient derived indices. A routine outcome assessment programme and prioritisation system can assist surgeons and eye banks in better case selection and in anticipating both objective and subjective improvement following surgery.
Improvements in communication of pertinent information must be implemented in managed care systems such as TennCare to better inform participants of the proper use of the system. MCOs will not reduce inappropriate use of the ED if patients are not aware of their responsibilities and do not know their PCPs or how to gain access to them. PCP responsiveness to patients must also be improved.
Tropomyosin does not seem to be the main allergen involved in mite-seafood sensitization in mite sensitized individuals. High levels of sIgE to tropomyosin seem to be related to severity of symptoms.
Although changes to foot structure and function in overweight/obese children could not be attributed to participating in the physical activity program, their developing feet may still be at risk of pain and discomfort due to higher plantar pressures and pressure-time integrals. Further research investigating ways to reduce plantar pressures generated by overweight/obese children while they are physically active is warranted.
Evaluation of data quality in the Cancer Registry of Tyrol demonstrated that the survival rates published for Tyrol are only minimally biased by registration or analysis procedures. However, access to data on emigration,which until now is not possible because of data protection restrictions, would reduce the bias in patient survival status, bearing in mind that the extent of emigration of cancer patients is expected to increase in Austria over the coming years.
In combination with other prognosticators, substitution of pN by LNR did not provide any added prognostic value for South East Asian breast cancer patients.
In an elderly Dutch population, higher dairy consumption was not associated with lower weight or more favorable levels of components of the metabolic syndrome, except for a modest association with lower blood pressure.
The SIEA flap has a lower rate of hernia/bulge and a higher rate of thrombotic complications. Because of the emotional and financial cost of these complications, the SIEA flap should be undertaken only if strict criteria are met.
Most children have an inadequate fluid intake in school. Free access to drinking water in class is associated with improved total fluid intake. Primary schools should promote water drinking in class.
Salvage surgery after downstaging of unresectable HCC had a survival benefit only for patients with MVI or a PR to TACE.
T2-weighted MR sequences are useful for predicting difficulty of aspiration during stereotactic or endoscopic procedures. A T2-weighted low-signal cyst is correlated with high-viscosity intracystic contents.
Symptomatic urinary tract dilatation may be associated with proteinuria in pregnancy. This association should be kept in mind in the differential diagnosis with other causes of proteinuria in pregnancy, including pre-eclampsia.
The use of IVUS is not associated with acceleration of arteriopathy in heart transplantation recipients. Luminal narrowing occurs predominantly during the first year after transplantation. There was no significant change in lumen dimensions during the second year.
Expansion of the perineural space with D5W is useful for catheter placement in continuous femoral nerve block.
This case showed that TO should be considered in patients with cough not explained by noninvasive testing and not responsive to empiric medications.
Injury of the CET is not an isolated lesion for lateral picondylitis, which is mostly accompanied with other abnormalities, of which the LUCL injury is the most commonly seen in lateral epicondylitis, and there is a positive correlation between the injury degree in CET and LUCL.
Varicocelectomy has significant potential not only to obviate the need for assisted reproductive technology, but also to down stage or shift the level of assisted reproductive technology needed to bypass male factor infertility.
This study demonstrates the importance of restoration of the anatomic insertion point of the MPFL when performing MPFL reconstruction and proposes that this procedure should not be performed in isolation in patients with high-grade trochlear dysplasia.
EBRT patients with similar nomogram-predicted 5Y-PFP appear to have a significantly increased risk of PCSM compared with those treated by RP. Comparison of treatments using nomogram-predicted BCR end points may not be valid.
Different methods of assessing exercise capacity do not appear to give comparable results and bear different relationships to haemodynamic variables and quality of life. Pedometer scores of customary activity may better reflect patients' quality of life and appear to be more closely related to limb blood flow than the maximal treadmill exercise test or the corridor walk test. The sole use of laboratory-based exercise tests in therapeutic trials may give a misleading assessment of treatment efficacy in heart failure patients.
In view of annotations in the literature and this case report, caution is advised as for irradiation of brain or nervous tissues in case of porphyrias. Molecular biology data seems to support this warning to some extent.
Insect nutritional composition is highly diverse in comparison with commonly consumed meats. The food category 'insects' contains some foods that could potentially exacerbate diet-related public health problems related to over-nutrition, but may be effective in combating under-nutrition.
A relatively aggressive PVR policy (end diastolic volume<150 mL/m(2)) leads to normalization of right ventricular volumes, improvement in biventricular function, and submaximal exercise capacity. Normalization of ventilatory response to carbon dioxide production is most likely to occur when surgery is performed at an age</=17.5 years. This is also associated with a better left ventricular filling and systolic function after surgery.
Most ileostomy reversal readmissions occur before the first follow-up and stem from preventable causes. An enhanced recovery pathway modification may improve outcomes and utilization in this group.
The UMB approach to pyloromyotomy was cosmetically superior but increased complication rates. Technical complications were easily corrected and length of stay was not affected. Wound infections were decreased in both groups by the use of prophylactic antibiotics.
Since its introduction in 2007, TAVR has been increasingly used in Germany in patients with previous CABG, and in-hospital outcome data support the trend away from redo surgery.
The TVT does not seem to contract or shorten over a median observation period of 1.6 years. On the contrary, it appears to slowly migrate caudally.
N-acetylcysteine and montelukast sodium have a protective effect against obstructive damage of the kidney. However, further investigations are needed.
We were unable to identify any specific clinical parameters associated with infection with antibiotic resistant pathogens in Gustilo-grade III open fractures, other than the severity of the fracture itself. More research is needed to identify patients who might benefit from a broader-spectrum antibiotic prophylaxis.
When performing the 13C-urea breath test it is sufficient to obtain samples 30 min after urea intake. Basal breath samples would not be necessary, which further simplifies this diagnostic method.
A strong relationship between postoperative serum myoglobin and renal failure suggests a rhabdomyolysis-like contributing aetiology following thoraco-abdominal aortic repair. We postulate a novel mechanism of renal injury for which mitigation strategies should be developed.
Our data show that, among older institutionalized patients, the prevalence of diabetes is high and the control of diabetes too tight, with a potential risk of hypoglycaemia. Antidiabetic treatment should be reduced when the HbA(1c) value is less than 7.5% in this frail and functionally dependent population. Furthermore, a diabetic diet, prescribed for more than half this population, is useless for glycaemic control and may even impinge on quality of life.
Lack of prenatal care is an independent contributor to perinatal mortality and low birth weight in a traditional society. In light of the high percentage of lack of prenatal care in Bedouin society, special attempts should be made to encourage women to use the available prenatal services.
The greater jump height in CMJ than in SJ could be explained by the fact that in CMJ active state developed during the preparatory countermovement, whereas in SJ it inevitably developed during the propulsion phase, so that the muscles could produce more force and work during shortening in CMJ.
Although in most respects there is good adherence to the RCSE national guidelines both in the referral and selection of patients for NHS implant therapy, about a quarter of patients particularly those referred from general dental practitioners rather than hospitals, would be contra-indicated from NHS therapy because of untreated caries or periodontitis.
Long-term survivors of chondrosarcoma appear to be at greater risk for having low BMD develop than the healthy population. Although these results are preliminary and based on a very small sampling of patients, if they can be confirmed in larger studies, BMD assessment by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry might be considered as these patients are followed posttreatment by sarcoma care units. The reasons for low BMD still must be elucidated.
The readability and comprehension demands of the current Title XIX-SCF exceed recommended guidelines for patient education and informed consent materials. The current Title XIX-SCF should be revised to ensure that women understand, desire and consent to permanent sterilization.
Interpretation of the ECG recorded during ACS by 2 SPs was discrepant in 13% of cases. Similarly, EP interpretation was discrepant from SP interpretation in 25% of cases, equally distributed between over- and underdiagnosing of ischaemic changes. The clinical implications and impact of medical education on ECG interpretation require further study.
In this cohort study, mortality and morbidity rates after elective TP are not significantly different from the pp-Whipple. Because of improvements in postoperative management, QoL is acceptable, and is almost comparable to that of pp-Whipple patients. Therefore, TP should no longer be generally avoided, because it is a viable option in selected patients.
In the great majority of patients with persistent anastomotic leakage at 6 months after total mesorectal excision, stoma reversal can be safely performed.
Aggressive locoregional treatment can lead to favorable outcomes for many patients with grossly involved PLNs that is comparable to that of grossly involved inguinal nodes only. We recommend modification of the FIGO stage IVB classification to more accurately reflect the relatively favorable prognosis of patients with PLN involvement.
Increased referral rate was observed following a social work interview, when comparing with local audit data. However, the majority of needs could be met by increasing accessibility of information.
In light of this knowledge on nerve muscle relationships, the difference in the pattern of nerve supply to the superior gemellus, inferior gemellus, and obturator internus muscles cannot be the basis for stating that the muscle are independent. Rather, their fusion to form the gemellus pocket and their common insertion suggest that they are different heads of one muscle.
After alarm symptom presentation, repeat consultations are associated with cancer diagnoses. Longer diagnostic intervals appeared to be associated with a worse prognosis for urinary tract cancer only. Mortality is higher when cancer is diagnosed in the absence of alarm symptoms.
Phototherapy may be an independent risk factor for ileus in ELBW neonates.
Within our population, living in a poorer area does not appear to delay access to acute care for stroke in a clinically significant way. We did find small, statistically significant delays in prehospital times that were associated with poorer communities, black race, and increasing age. However, delays related to public recognition of stroke symptoms, and limited use of 911, are likely much more important than these small delays that occur with EMS systems.
Global surgery is a key word these days in attracting young trainees to academic surgical residency programs, yet they are subsequently inadequately trained to provide the required surgical services in these low-resource settings. Dedicated programmatic changes are required to allow those who choose to practice in these settings to obtain the full breadth of training needed to become safe, competent surgeons in such environments.
Whilst the native S. lateralis may have a broader thermal range, the alien species performs particularly well at higher salinities and temperatures and this ability may facilitate its invasion in Mediterranean areas. The greater plasticity of T. v. verticalis may further facilitate its spread in the future, as it may be more able to respond to climate shifts than the native species.
Donepezil treatment slows the progression of hippocampal atrophy, suggesting a neuroprotective effect of donepezil in Alzheimer's disease.
Long-term sick-listed patients find that their self-reported ability to return to work is affected by positive and negative encounters with social insurance office staff. This effect is further enhanced by feeling respected or wronged, respectively.
This study provides evidence of age-related changes in dysfunctional impulsivity. Functional impulsivity did not show the same pattern as dysfunctional impulsivity, being quite stable across the age span. it seems, then, that impulsivity cannot be considered to decrease with age and dysfunctional impulsivity may even increase.
The results suggest that subsyndromal depression causes impairment of the quality of life in primary care patients of a Brazilian sample.
This study shows that 1 year after second-stage knee revision surgery, kinematic and kinetic values remain lower than those observed in a normal reference population. Only slight improvements in walking ability are shown, when analysing data in comparison with those collected after a preformed articulated knee spacer. This finding points out the long time to full functional recovery after knee revision surgery and the limited improvement of gait when compared to the one achieved at the time of spacer implant.
The association between smoking and Hodgkin lymphoma in general, and Epstein-Barr-positive Hodgkin lymphoma in particular, is consistent with previous studies. Further exploration of the relationship between Hodgkin lymphoma and smoking and of the potential mechanisms by which smoking could interact with Epstein-Barr virus status to increase Hodgkin lymphoma risk are required.
The combination of defensive strategies assessed using the MCT and selected on hypothetical grounds was less discriminatory than expected for those at risk of postoperative psychosocial problems. However, those with primitive strategies apparently had a long-term risk of poor adaptation. The search for an optimal instrument for the identification of patients at risk is warranted. In this study, patients with a 'wet' stoma did not seem to fare less well than those with a continent reconstruction.
Families feel that participating in family centered rounds improves the care of their children. Those that like attending rounds are more likely to participate in family centered rounds, but family demographic characteristics were not associated with rounds attendance. Future studies are needed to identify barriers to family participation in family centered rounds.
We prefer complete laparoscopic section of the spermatic pedicle to embolization but it would be advisable to introduce modifications to avoid post-surgical hydrocele. Embolization must be reserved for patients with one testicle or with bilateral disease. Efforts must be made to communicate more effectively, in order to reduce the high drop-out rate.
MRI may reveal EH in some cases among patients with RPV, suggesting a similar pathophysiological mechanism in comparison with MD.
These findings suggest that HRP thresholds cannot be regarded as sampling limited, but rather they are optically limited. We therefore conclude that HRP thresholds cannot be regarded as a direct measure of the underlying ganglion cell density.
Range of motion and strength thresholds can identify subjects with normal shoulder function. A discordance between shoulder impairment and patient-reported outcome has been demonstrated and further work to identify patient, injury, or treatment factors to minimize this discrepancy is still needed.
Our data supported the use of a partial load-bearing, gentamicin-impregnated hemiarthroplasty spacer in treating deep periprosthetic THA infections.
Although confirmation is necessary, these results suggest that omeprazole family compounds could be profitably used in the prevention of ILI.
VLDL-TG level was a useful early marker for insulin resistance, especially in nondiabetic subjects. The homogeneous VLDL-TG assay is a simple, low-cost method for determining insulin resistance.
Current SCIP guidelines address antibiotic timing but not antibiotic dosage. (The generally accepted recommendation for vancomycin is 15 mg/kg.) Although vancomycin is a narrower-spectrum antibiotic than either cefazolin or clindamycin, our finding of higher SSI rates following prophylaxis with vancomycin only may suggest a failure to use an appropriate dosage rather than an inequality of antibiotic effectiveness.
The use of multiple mediastinal chest tubes after cardiac surgery confers no advantage over a single chest tube in preventing return to the operating room for bleeding or tamponade.
This study demonstrates that, in a cohort of amphetamine users within the criminal justice system, prior psychiatric morbidity and demographic risk factors are more important than baseline patterns of amphetamine use in predicting future risk of hospitalization due to psychosis.
The addition of fentanyl to epidural infusions of bupivacaine in infants undergoing thoracotomy for resection of CCAM may prolong recovery and increase the incidence of adverse respiratory events without providing a significant analgesic benefit.
Neither the theories suggesting that SH leads to an UT nor those suggesting that an UT leads to a SH are satisfactory. We believe that this coexistence may be the congenital Spigelian-cryptorchidism syndrome seen in boys. As in the four cases presented here, elements of this syndrome are defects in the Spigelian fascia and the hernia sac enveloping the testis and an absence of the gubernaculum and the inguinal canal.
An experimental variation of time intervals between discharge from rehabilitation and first postal contact does not seem to influence the extent of reported dissatisfaction though it clearly influences the response rate: The later the sending out the lower the response rate. Taking into account additional administrative and organisational aspects of the programme we propose to send out satisfaction questionnaires between 8 and 10 weeks after rehabilitation.
We found that trials requiring prethrombolytic randomization can lead to a delay in the initiation of treatment. Future studies are needed to determine if such a delay is clinically significant and can be shortened by improved enrollment strategies.
Stomatal size predicts genome size within angiosperms. Correlation is not, however, proof of causality and here our interpretation is hampered by unexpected deficiencies in the scientific literature. Firstly, there are discrepancies between our own observations and established ideas about the ecological significance of stomatal size; very large stomata, theoretically facilitating photosynthesis in deep shade, were, in this study (and in other studies), primarily associated with vernal geophytes of unshaded habitats. Secondly, the lower size limit at which stomata can function efficiently, and the ecological circumstances under which these minute stomata might occur, have not been satisfactorally resolved. Thus, our hypothesis, that the optimization of stomatal size for functional efficiency is a major ecological determinant of genome size, remains unproven.
Results suggest a possible advantage in PFS for patients with localized disease and fusion type I transcripts, although this will require prospective validation with a larger number of patients and longer follow-up periods.
Adverse early experience seems to induce functional changes in the hippocampus that remain latent until activated by stress in adulthood. Such electrophysiologic changes might represent a neural substrate for vulnerability to stress-associated psychopathology.
The levonorgestrel-releasing IUD is significantly less conspicuous than the copper IUD on 2D imaging. Three-dimensional ultrasound enhances the conspicuity of both types of IUD.
Asking GUCH to participate in an exercise program supervised by physical therapists is a good strategy. Taken into account nonresponse, a participation rate in the exercise program of over 20% is to be expected. Perceived physical fitness and motivation for physical activity in general are important predictors of patients' willingness to participate.
Preterm infants who develop CLD do not always achieve reference growth in their first year following discharge, despite protein and energy intakes being mostly comparable to those recommended for healthy term-born infants.
The technique of fetal magnetocardiography provides a significant advance in the technological field for the demonstration of QRS complexes and the full PQRST waveforms in gestations from 20 weeks onwards. With further technical improvements the clinical impact of this technique can be assessed more fully.
These findings indicate that frontally recorded N18, P20 and N13 recorded from C2 are generated in part in the brainstem, which becomes damaged by increased intracranial pressure due to secondary injury in severe traumatic brain injury.
GDM diagnosed by screening is associated with a lower incidence of fetal and neonatal macrosomia than GDM diagnosed by clinical symptoms. A later diagnosis of GDM is more prevalent in presumed low-risk pregnancies. These results favour a policy of routine screening.
The authors have found higher prevalence and risk of developing thyroiditis and anti-thyroid antibodies among residents of areas surrounding the Petrochemical Complex and think these findings need to be further studied in similar areas.
Our findings support the hypothesis that migraine is a consequence of a loss of neurohormonal and metabolic integrity, and that migraine can be managed by a multimodal approach.
Initiation of TPN immediately after birth and restricted fluid intake in very preterm infants do not seem to influence serum sodium and potassium levels in first three postnatal days. Further research is needed to see if a decreased diuresis and loss of body weight in the first days is the result of a delayed postnatal adaptation or better energy balance.
Modest delays in IMR placement did not adversely affect patient outcome. Pulmonary complications were related to the severity of injury rather than to timing of fracture fixation. In a well-integrated trauma system, clinical judgment regarding the timing of IMR placement was the most important determinant of outcome. Delays that were made to stabilize the patient, treat associated injuries, and plan orthopedic reconstruction did not adversely affect patient outcome.
Work-hour restrictions result in a significant decrease in operative experience. This detriment can be partially alleviated with the institution of a night rotation to better regulate in-house call.
Participation in a three-hour HAICC resulted in medical students' increased knowledge about and attitudes toward the role of interdisciplinary teams in health care.
Our findings provide evidence that food approach eating behaviours such as food responsiveness and emotional overeating are associated with the increased ADHD symptoms in preschool children. Future studies to better understand this overlap will enhance potential interventions.
Extending the overall treatment time was found to adversely influence local control. Neither the irradiated area nor treatment energy was found to influence local control in early stage vocal cord carcinoma.
Decreased myocardial function results in a more symmetrical outflow, while very asymmetrical traces suggest increased contractility, potentially inducing intra-cavity gradients during DSE. Therefore, including outflow symmetry as a clinical measurement provides additional information on patients with CAD.
Most cases of metabolic and lactic acidosis in the hospital setting occur in patients not taking metformin. Hepatic, renal and cardiac dysfunction are more important predictors for the development of acidosis.
This case study demonstrates substantial procedural variability and limited effectiveness. This raises questions as to the quality of care, the treatment-derived health outcomes of this population and of efficient resource allocation. This issue requires greater policy attention.
These results are broadly consistent with the findings in clinical samples and suggest that Ordering and Hoarding are more strongly familial than other symptom dimensions and that high Ordering scores in mothers are associated with increased levels of symptoms in daughters in a less specific manner.
The SIQ may assist clinicians in assessing social development and in making decisions about referral for autism assessment. Evaluation of the SIQ at the point of entry to a clinical service is needed.
Adopting an upright seated posture in the face of stress can maintain self-esteem, reduce negative mood, and increase positive mood compared to a slumped posture. Furthermore, sitting upright increases rate of speech and reduces self-focus. Sitting upright may be a simple behavioral strategy to help build resilience to stress. The research is consistent with embodied cognition theories that muscular and autonomic states influence emotional responding.
No sex difference in the selection of physiological or rate-modulated permanent pacemakers was demonstrated in this study.
The main cause of faecal incontinence in SSc is poor function of the internal anal sphincter smooth muscle.
Saudi women in academic medicine have succeeded at the junior level. They specialized in various fields and excelled. Their further academic progression needs the support of senior academic staff, the chairs and the institution administration.
While this research is an observation of only one set of applicants to one residency program, if the findings are applicable to other programs and specialties, that suggests that medical schools and residency program directors should develop methods for increasing competency awareness among medical students.
In contrast to actinomycosis at other sites, where the literature recommends antibiotic therapy for 6-12 months, pelvic actinomycosis could be a limited disease. We propose that in cases of pelvic actinomycosis where the abscess can be completely removed surgically, a shorter period of antibiotic therapy can be effective.
We confirm the acute phase response in the carriers for MEFV mutations. We suggest that these patients may have a tendency to develop certain manifestations due to an increased baseline of inflammation, and the presence of these mutations may affect their disease course when they develop rheumatic disease.
The characteristics of importance in relation to bank employees who become ill due to rsi/wrmsd seem to be different today from those that were known historically. greater attention to organizing work and management strategies should be taken into consideration in drawing up illness prevention programs for banking work.
The calculated specificity of MRA as a confirmatory test for high-grade carotid stenosis is highly dependent on the proportion of normal carotid arteries included in the calculation. Based on our results, the specificity of MRA reported in the literature has likely been overstated because of spectrum bias.
We assessed associations between hospitals' quality improvement systems and clinical outcomes. From this data it seems that having a more developed quality improvement system is associated with lower rates of adjusted hospital complications. A number of methodological and logistic hurdles remain to link hospital quality improvement systems to outcomes. Further research should aim at identifying the latent dimensions of quality improvement systems that predict quality and safety outcomes. Such research would add pertinent knowledge regarding the implementation of organizational strategies related with quality of care outcomes.
The measurement of fundal height showed a poor performance for predicting oligohydramnios and a reasonable performance for predicting polyhydramnios. Its use for this purpose is then only supported in settings where the ultrasound exam is not easily or routinely available in order to help define priorities for cases that should have this exam performed.
Preliminary data suggest that this intervention was well received and appears to be effective in achieving restraint-free care.
Increased RI and PI of capsular branches of testicular arteries on spectral Doppler examination may be an indicator of impaired testicular microcirculation in patients with clinical varicocele. Further studies addressing the correlations with sperm counts are needed to determine the cut-off values for these indices.
Pooled data showed that in comparison to clear liquids diet, purgative bowel cleansing, before VCE, improves the SBVQ and increases the DY of the examination, but does not affect the VCE completion rate.
Patients attended by paramedics who were discharged at the scene had more subsequent events than those who were transported to and discharged from ED. Further consideration needs to be given to who is suitable to be discharged at the scene by paramedics.
Risk factors of repeat TOP are more clearly defined than factors associated with delivery. An increased focus on young women, those with a history of TOP and parous women, might be effective in reducing repeat TOP.
The characteristics of an effective scribe; well developed communication skills, confidence and assertiveness and resuscitation 'know how', may be the measurement of readiness for the position of scribe nurse within the resuscitation team, rather than number of years of clinical experience or designation.
This finding, jointly with those of a previous experiment which showed no AM effect on blind subjects (Olivetti Belardinelli&Santangelo 2005) supports the idea of different spatial maps underlying visual and auditory attention, and suggests that their co-existence may induce interference effects in space processing, giving rise to the anisotropic representation of visual and auditory spaces, observed in normal subjects.
It is difficult to predict a high risk for developing bladder cancer in women with haematuria based solely on reproductive factors.
The latissimus dorsi tendon transfer may improve shoulder function in irreparable massive rotator cuff tears. However, because the tenodesis effect loses its strength with time, progression of the arthropathy should be expected over time. Nevertheless, latissimus dorsi tendon transfer may help to delay the need for reverse shoulder arthroplasty for these patients.
Kyphoplasty is a modern minimal invasive surgery, allowing faster recovery than bracing treatment. It can avoid the deformity in kyphosis due to VCF. In fact, the risk to develop a new vertebral fracture after the first one is very high.
The simple withdrawal of IFN therapy in patients with CH-C, who had developed DT, appears to be effective in the treatment of the thyroid disease. This therapeutic approach should be preferred in order to avoid possible undesired side effects of steroid therapy in patients with CH-C.
The results of this meta-analysis did not confirm an association between low TSH values and lower thyroid cancer rate, at least in patients with nodular disease.
The SMRs for stroke in those aged under 65 in these three health districts reflect the incidence of stroke. Case fatality at three weeks does not vary between these districts and consequently would not be a sensitive indicator of the quality of care. This also suggests that differences in services between the districts did not lead to changes in prognosis. In districts with high SMRs for stroke there is a need for further study and reduction of risk factors, thereby reducing the incidence and burden of stroke locally. This study provides a framework for assessing the needs for stroke prevention and treatment in both rural and urban areas without an elaborate protocol and detailed neurological assessment.
Our findings provide evidence for enhanced RA signalling to be involved in minocycline's pleiotropic mode of action in the CNS. This novel mode of action of minocycline may help in developing more specific and effective strategies in the treatment of neuroinflammatory or neurodegenerative disorders.
Fovea alta shows promise as a strong MRI marker of DDH.
Since a clear differentiation between MHS and MHN porcine specimens was achieved after bolus application of 75 and 100 micro mol l (-1) CEP, MH-diagnosis might be possible with a CEP-IVCT. It seems worthwhile to examine this hypothesis in men.
Left atrial catheter insertion and flushing can cause systemic gaseous microemboli in more than 50% of patients. Although the number of microemboli introduced is relatively small, extreme care should be used during left atrial catheter insertion.
Serum IMA was found to be significantly increased in cases of ischemia on MPS. Subjects with normal and equivocal MPS had a similar pattern during the test. IMA may be used in differentiation of equivocal results from false positive results.
Antenatal screening of anti-HCV is not necessary, however, every woman with risk factors for HCV infection in anamnesis should be tested. Women infected with HCV ought to be treated before pregnancy in order to decrease HCV replication. The protective role of elective cesarean section requires further investigation. A number of children with chronic HCV infection should be considered for early treatment.
In both HD and non-HD endoscopy, NBI is less likely than WLI to miss a lesion. Even with non-HD endoscopy, NBI is suitable for esophageal standard examinations in general hospitals.
Combined FDG and fluoride PET is an advanced metabolic imaging approach for the evaluation of cancer.
This analysis suggests that the effect of depression on mortality in persons with diabetes mellitus is most significant for older adults. Because there is evidence in the literature that treatment of depression in elderly adults can lead to lower mortality, these results may suggest that older adults with diabetes mellitus should be considered a high-priority population for depression screening and treatment.
ASA activity can predict the onset of endometrial polyps over the years.
Hyperexpansion of the native lung after single lung transplantation for emphysema may have a deleterious effect on graft function and possibly on clinical outcome.
Clearly distinct chromosome numbers allied to monophyly provide some support for a circumscription of the Bombacoideae and distinction within the Malvaceae. The phylogenetic signal for chromosome number supports the idea of an ancient WGD and further neopolyploidy events as important evolutionary trends for the Bombacoideae.
Maintenance TKI therapy after transplantation is feasible and might reduce the incidence of relapses and improve outcomes after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for patients with high-risk Ph(+) leukemia.
Treatment with (90)Y plus GCs with bed rest and splinting is not superior to IA GCs with bed rest and splinting. Over the short term, both treatments appeared to be safe, although a negative effect of (90)Y on cartilage and bone cannot be ruled out. Thus, it appears that RSO with (90)Y should no longer be considered the treatment of first choice for persistent arthritis of the knee.
Alternative structures such as primary care units near the ED seem to be an appropriate response to meet the growing demand of no urgent patients. The success of providing this reorientation, however, could be determined by the working hours of the structures and the practice of certain technical skills.
Our results showed that more detailed data collection and exposure assessment in the nested case-control study compared with the cohort study did change exposure status of many subjects, but did not alter results of the exposure-response analysis. Adjustment for tobacco smoking did not have a noticeable effect on risk estimates either.
Our results suggest that routine screening for CMV following cardiac transplantation is unnecessary. Surveillance did not result in the instigation of treatment for CMV unless there were associated clinical features of CMV infection.
Depending on the time that has passed since surgery, we observed significant changes in platelet count and thrombocytopoietic indices. Three days after surgery, platelet count was reduced while concentrations of the cytokines increased, which resulted in a significant rise in platelet count 12 days after surgery. Tumor resection in colorectal cancer patients regulates thrombocytopoiesis and restores physiological relationship between PLT and Tpo. The elevated IL-6 level in our study may indicate its involvement not only in the neoplastic and inflammatory processes, but also in thrombocytopoiesis.
Alveolar deposition of Ventavis in NHBD lungs before preservation significantly improves dynamic lung compliance and represents an important strategy for improvement of preservation quality and expansion of warm ischemic intervals. However, additional application of this method in early reperfusion is of no benefit.
Our experience suggests that public awareness has increased and that the general practitioner threshold for referral has fallen but there has been no reduction in the thickness of those melanomas diagnosed.
Pericardium closure is a simple method to facilitate resternotomy during subsequent re operative procedures. However, cardiac surgeons should be aware of the transient deterioration in hemodynamics associated with it, even thought there was no clinical significance in this study.
Our study falls in line with the obesity paradox observation (in obese but not overweight patients) in a large survey of HF patients, although this finding was not statistically significant on multivariate adjustment analysis.
We conclude that UW is a safe and effective myocardial preservative, allowing longer ischemic times with equivalent graft function. Our data suggest that when UW is used for cardiac allograft preservation, both CAV and survival are comparable to the experience with other preservatives containing lower concentrations of potassium.
Body mass index provided independently predictive information regarding the risks of prostate cancer and high grade prostate cancer after adjusting for other risk factors. Body mass index, especially in men with a known family history of prostate cancer, should be considered for inclusion in any clinical assessment of prostate cancer risk and recommendations regarding prostate biopsy.
Analysis of our data showed that the degree of concern that the cochlear implant team has in relationship to specific candidacy criteria has changed over time. Recommendations against a cochlear implant were often revisited after initial concerns were addressed. The use of a team approach, in conjunction with a validation tool, is important for establishing criteria for successful cochlear implantation in children to support appropriate counseling of patients and families and to plan post-implant management.
Vascular implants consisting of magnesium alloy degradable by biocorrosion seem to be a realistic alternative to permanent implants.
In current clinical practice, CAS is performed frequently at the right carotid artery as at the left carotid artery. CAS interventions have a higher in-hospital complication rate if performed at the left carotid artery. Technical improvements might help to overcome this situation.
Through INR self-management, an improvement in the quality of ongoing oral anticoagulation could be shown. Starting this form of therapeutic control early after mechanical heart valve replacement appears to effect a further reduction in anticoagulant-induced complications.
The present study showed temporally increasing trends in associations between PM and mortality. Current policies may not be as effective to reducing health risks attributable to PM as expected. Air quality interventions should be encouraged in terms of causal factors for time-varying association between PM and mortality.
The findings suggest that, although being religious may improve the psychological condition in workers with chronic LBP, its effect is insufficient to reduce disability due to illness. Further research should examine the role of depression as a mediator of the effect of psychological stress on disability in patients with chronic LBP.
Increased physician knowledge regarding H1N1 influenza, represented as higher test scores on a knowledge assessment test, was significantly associated with the frequency of H1N1 vaccination among their patients.
These results replicated and extended past evidence that cognitive distraction is associated with lower levels of alcohol-related aggression in highly provoked males and provide the first known cognitive data to support the attentional processes posited by the attention-allocation model. Discussion focused on how these data inform intervention programming for alcohol-related aggression.
The present findings provide biochemical support for the hypothesis that the high linoleic acid content of modern industrialized diets may create a biochemical susceptibility to develop chronic pain. Dietary linoleic acid lowering should be further investigated as part of an integrative strategy for the prevention and management of idiopathic pain syndromes.
Blind spots of normal discs seem to be smaller than those of deeply excavated discs in eyes with early glaucoma, possibly because there is more light scattering by the normal disc surface towards the adjacent functioning retina.
Patients with AS are at increased risk of NL, which may be considered a novel extra-articular manifestation. Previous history of NL, IBD, AS disease severity and male sex were identified as predictors of NL in AS.
Our results show that the presence of a non-cleaved embryo on day 3 is associated with a more exuberant response to controlled ovarian stimulation as reflected by more oocytes retrieved. Despite the significant decrease in quality of the whole cohort in the non-cleaved group, implantation, delivery rates and number of embryos frozen were not adversely affected by the presence of a non-cleaved embryo.
The management of obstetricians with respect to (imminent) miscarriage is diverse and does not correspond to the guidelines of the '(Imminent) miscarriage' GP standard, notably with respect to the advised expectative management.
Asthma management practice of Hong Kong doctors falls short of the standards recommended by international guidelines. More effort in improving their knowledge is urgently warranted.
Malarial hepatitis occurred in 18 out of 39 patients with jaundice and falciparum malaria. It is a heterogeneous syndrome with at least two clinical subsets and the severe disease should not be mistaken for fulminant hepatic failure as there is a better response to therapy.
The category N1c may not be appropriate for patients with rectal cancer after preoperative CRT, because the definition of ypN1c was confusing and did not have prognostic significance.
Acute pyelonephritis requiring unplanned admission after ureteroscopy is a rare complication (2.4%). Urinalysis one day before ureteroscopy could allow early antibiotic therapy and may reduce 63% of unplanned hospital admissions for acute pyelonephritis.
MCP-1 may have a dichotomous role following AMI, aiding early infarct healing but potentiating later remodeling, which merits further study before any therapeutic trials of MCP-1 modulation in humans.
The current CGM sensor tested here may be used for extended periods, providing added economic benefits for the wearer. However, the marked inaccuracy and lag time of CGM readings when blood glucose levels change rapidly within the physiological range must be considered for optimal CGM use in glycemic management.
At this time point, observed toxicity is minimal with excellent local control rates. This promising treatment paradigm requires further investigation in the context of a randomised controlled trial to establish if the addition of SBRT to standard care improves survival outcomes.
Less than 50% of adults with arthritis report ever being advised by a health professional to become more physically active. Advice alone appears insufficient to promote increased physical activity in adults with arthritis.
The incidence of severe bicycle-related injuries requiring intensive care hospitalization is increasing and abdominal trauma forms the main portion of those injuries. We suggest introducing a trunk-protective measure for young bicyclists. Exact information on the mechanism of the injury is important for evaluating the injured patient more accurately.
Despite patient and tumor characteristics traditionally associated with poorer outcomes, SPs do not have significantly poorer treatment completion rates or outcomes after CT-RT. Further studies are needed to determine whether these trends hold true in other practice settings.
The 27 club is unlikely to be a real phenomenon. Fame may increase the risk of death among musicians, but this risk is not limited to age 27.
These findings suggest that the course of PD dimensions is fairly independent of each other, and that initial levels of PD dimensions have relatively little prognostic value for predicting the course of other PD dimensions.
A minority, yet sizeable proportion, of men consistently engaged in a number of UAI practices in specific contexts, suggesting they have adopted deliberate HIV risk-reduction strategies. While it is important that HIV behavioural prevention continues to reinforce condom use, it needs to address both the challenges and opportunities of the substantial uptake of non-condom-based risk-reduction strategies.
Syncope itself is not a risk factor for increased overall and cardiac mortality or cardiovascular events. Underlying heart diseases are risk factors for mortality regardless of whether the patient has syncope or not. The major focus of the evaluation of patients with syncope should be to identify and treat underlying heart diseases.
The clinical results of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke tPA Stroke Trial were replicated in this small series of patients treated in a community setting. Outcomes were similar whether the prescribing physician was a neurologist or an ED physician.
Severe PFS was observed in older, male patients with LUTS. PFS severity was associated with the degree of BOO and impaired renal function.
Our study developed a method based on 3D-HRAM to automatically diagnose sphincter defects, allowing a systematic and comprehensive analysis of the test recordings. Compared with EUS, the 3D-HRAM image analysis procedure revealed poor sensitivity and specificity.
In primary snoring patients, pillar implant is a safe and easy single procedure. At the 18th-month follow-up, partners' VAS score improvement was 53%, along with 80% patient satisfaction.
The results of the investigation show that participants of a 4-day TOE seminar can interpret left ventricular function, preload and regional wall motion abnormalities correctly at a very high rate. TOE seminars seem to be effective in teaching basic theoretical knowledge of TOE.
For long-lived women, low BMI, rather than elevated BMI, is an indicator of poor psychological well-being. The findings call for public health awareness about low body weight in long-lived women, especially in those with physical disabilities when focusing on quality of life.
In this short-term rabbit model, we observed that the stratified squamous keratinized epithelium from the external prepuce kept its keratin production. There was no statistical influence of the flap type on the mean epithelial thickness.
The longevity of anthesis in S. sellowiana seems to be related to the mechanism of gradual dispensing of pollen, resulting in greater male reproductive success. This is in agreement with the pollen-donation hypothesis. The small number of ovules (four) of S. sellowiana and the high frequency and the foraging mode of its pollinators may favour the selection for floral longevity driven by male fitness in this system.
The data of this preliminary study suggest an important role of impaired cerebral vasomotor reactivity in predicting ischemic cerebral events. Preventive vascular surgery might be considered in this high-risk subgroup of asymptomatic patients with severe carotid stenosis.
The clinical and radiologic features of LCH in the pelvis and extremities overlap with infection and malignancy, but LCH must be considered in the differential diagnosis, as it routinely presents with aggressive MRI features, including endosteal scalloping, periosteal reaction, perilesional edema, and a soft tissue mass. Furthermore, an unknown skeletal lesion at presentation without aggressive MRI features is unlikely to represent LCH.
This study finds that the association of sleep disordered breathing with hypertension is stronger in individuals who report daytime sleepiness than in those who do not.
The application of a SLI at birth in preterm infants with respiratory distress may decrease the need for mechanical ventilation without inducing evident adverse effects.
Endoscopic and percutaneous biliary drainage are both effective methods for the palliative treatment of patients with hilar tumors. However, for Bismuth IV-type strictures, percutaneous drainage proved to be safer and more effective.
SSO breast oncology fellowships appear to be training confident, well-prepared graduates with good job outlooks, and many are achieving leadership positions. Deficiencies in sonography training, some advanced surgical techniques, and administrative experiences should be addressed by program directors as graduates do perceive the need for such training.
Participating immunization stakeholders recognized the benefits of vaccine products with improved stability characteristics and of labeling vaccines for controlled-temperature chain use as a means to help address cold-chain issues in their immunization programs.
Asymmetric metal markings observed on the ball heads tested in this investigation are most probably caused by the presence of contaminants entrapped in the taper fit. Homogenous metal mark distributions around the circumference indicate proper assembly of the ball head without entrapped contaminants. It should, however, be noted that different taper designs may possibly result in different marking patterns.
This study provides data about the fetal exposure and the contribution of Din to the total fetal dose from conformal radiation therapy. The Din knowledge prior to patient's irradiation enables radiation oncologists and medical physicists to decide whether fetal dose may be limited to 10 cGy or less with or without the introduction of special shielding materials.
Growth patterns in early life may be associated with leptin levels at age 10 years.
This analysis suggests that postoperative outcomes are best for distal and worst for perihilar cholangiocarcinomas, and hepatectomy for bile duct cancers is associated with a 2- to 3-fold mortality risk. We conclude that North American surgical outcomes can be improved for patients with proximal cholangiocarcinomas.
An improved TQE/RO ratio was obtained together with a greater percentage of frozen embryos in the patients that incorporated hp-hMG to their stimulation protocol. Despite good results of adding hp-hMG, non statistical differences were found in terms of ongoing pregnancy rate.
Large loop excision of the transformation zone procedure in the first trimester of pregnancy is a safe procedure, with the advantage of treating definitively CIN 2, 3 lesions and preventing the devastating consequences of undiagnosed cervical cancer. We suggest that LLETZ should be performed more liberally in the first trimester of pregnancy.
When administered with premixed PN, lipid emulsion was not significantly associated with an increase in the risk of infectious morbidity when compared to omitting lipids from therapy.
Among 17 CD patients who had previously undergone a non-diagnostic EGD, non-performance of duodenal biopsy during the prior EGD was the dominant feature. Routine performance of duodenal biopsy during EGD for the indications of dyspepsia and reflux may improve CD diagnosis rates.
The diameter of dextranomer microsphere does not affect the short-term success rate in endoscopic treatment of vesicoureteral reflux. Multicentric, randomized and prospective studies are required for long-term clinical results.
The AUS category was characterized by limited reported follow-up and surgical outcome. The data demonstrated that FNAs with an AUS diagnosis had a higher risk of malignancy than the risk according to published TBSRTC criteria, whereas the percentage of malignancy in FNAs with an FN/SFN diagnosis did not differ from that according to TBSRTC. Hurthle cell lesions represent a challenging category, underlying the importance of further studies to define whether they can be diagnosed in the AUS/FLUS category rather than the FN/SFN category.
Patients undergoing TAVR with 23 and 26 mm valves have similar clinical outcomes despite significant differences in baseline characteristics. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Neither bone-setting nor exercise differed significantly from physiotherapy, but bone-setting improved lateral and forward bending of the spine and back pain more than did exercise.
Autopsy assistants at forensic departments seem to have an increased prevalence of self-reported blanching fingers, which may be an effect of exposure to high levels of vibration.
The preliminary results show that large gastric GISTs with cystic change and surface ulceration may associate with a risk of malignancy, warranting more aggressive management. Nevertheless, the tumor size is more important than other factors.
We document for the first time in the literature that patients with lower ureteric stones have a reduction in their urinary stream which resolves with endoscopic removal of the stones.
Communication before onset of sexual activity about risk and prevention is associated with safe sex practices. Improving parent-adolescent communication is a poorly studied strategy to influence adolescents' behaviour. Interventions should promote early parent-adolescent communication.
The incidence of SVD and ascending aortic dilatation is not affected by the method of implantation of the aortic homograft. All homografts are prone to SVD which is responsible for a progressive increase in the prevalence of these changes over time.
Low-risk patients with PTC who present slightly elevated Tg after thyroidectomy do not require ablation with 131I.
A PI strategy appears to alter the pattern of IS after ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, resulting in more medium and fewer large infarcts compared with PPCI. Despite a comparable number of small infarcts, PI patients in this group had more aborted myocardial infarctions and less 30-day shock and congestive heart failure.
Amniotic fluid levels of TAT complexes in the second trimester are elevated in women who subsequently deliver preterm, suggesting that thrombin generation may be involved in the various etiopathogenic mechanisms leading to preterm delivery.
As the influx of non-EEA doctors is increasing, harmonisation within the EEA is strongly advisable. As long as there is no EEA directive about non-EEA doctors, the assessment procedures (diploma evaluation, medical-knowledge tests, language requirements, length of additional programmes, etc.) need to be coordinated.
Implementation of the stroke thrombolysis service in Hong Kong appeared safe and efficacious. Patients who received thrombolysis had better outcomes compared to non-thrombolysis cohort. Further studies are needed to investigate the economics of stroke thrombolysis in Hong Kong, which may help to improve funding for provision of this service.
Elderly patients are at higher risk of mortality after pancreatic resection than usually reported case series. Nonetheless, elderly patients can undergo pancreatic resection with acceptable 5-year survival results. Our results contribute for a better, informed decision-making for elderly patients and their family.
Building on previous research showing that problems with understanding numerical information often do not reside in the mind but in the representation of the problem, the results show that icon arrays are an effective method of eliminating denominator neglect.
Even in women with single leiomyomas, anatomical criteria do not specify clinical presentation or predict clinical outcome. Younger patient age and incomplete fibroid infarction relate to higher rates of TF.
The majority of survey responders (90%) prescribed methadone in their pain practice, but on a very limited basis; 59% state<20% of their patients are on methadone. Three times a day dosing schedule was the most typical regimen (57%) while 77% prefer to titrate up on the dosage. It seems interesting that many clinicians do not prescribe methadone as a primary analgesic. One reason for this is due to the social stigma of its use in treatment of heroin addicts. Also, a lack of widely recognized treatment algorithms or guidelines to assist clinicians with opioid conversions and maintenance might be playing a role. The role of stigma as a barrier to adequate treatment of chronic pain among pain physicians prescribing practices is a fundamental, yet unexplored issue.
These data demonstrate differences in cartilage composition and gait mechanics between men and women in young healthy, middle-aged healthy, and OA cohorts. Considering the cross-sectional nature of the study, longitudinal research is needed to investigate if these differences in cartilage composition and walking mechanics are associated with a greater risk of lateral tibiofemoral or patellofemoral OA in women. Future studies should also investigate the relative risk of lateral versus medial patellofemoral cartilage degeneration risk in women compared with men.
Community services surveyed in this study demonstrated congruency with some, but not all, of the current content, format, and delivery style recommendations in the literature. Areas for improvement are discussed.
Results from the present and other studies indicate that the factorial structure of the TAS-20 may vary across samples. Whether factor structures different from the common three-factor structure are an exception in some mainly clinical populations or a common phenomenon outside student populations has still to be determined. For a further exploration of the factor structure of the TAS-20 in different populations, it would be important not only to test the fit of the common three-factor model, but also to consider other competing solutions like the models of the present study.
Although HD is frequently employed for patients with refractory pelvic pain and/or lower urinary tract complaints, results failed to identify any statistically significant differences in post-distention objective findings (anesthetic capacity, glomerulations) or therapeutic benefits when patients are categorized according to presenting symptoms.
The finding that the mandible had significantly lower bone BT than that of the maxilla and that two thirds of BRONJ cases occur in the mandible were inconsistent with the investigated hypothesis. Furthermore, the bone BT in the jawbone was not overly suppressed by bisphosphonates. Thus, it is unlikely that over suppression of bone BT is the exclusive causation playing a role in the pathomechanism of BRONJ.
Antibiotic treatment for CoNS sepsis may be shortened to 3 days when clinical improvement is rapid and central lines are not present. Prospective randomized studies are needed to confirm the results of this single-center study. Future studies may reveal the effects on the development of antimicrobial resistance.
Very large differences in LF concentrations between meconium portions and in the total LF accumulation between the neonates suggest the influence of intrauterine factors on the variations in fetal intestinal LF concentrations.
The findings indicate a possible bias against eating disorders research among some leading psychiatric journals. Alternative explanations and implications are discussed.
Despite suggestive experimental data regarding endograft healing in animals, minimal graft incorporation was apparent in the stent grafts recovered in this study. A greater emphasis on the construction and mechanism of fixation of endograft attachment systems will be important for long-term device function.
In HL male patients IMRT seems feasible and accurate while for women HL patients IMRT should be used with caution.
In experienced hands, ELC is safe even after 72 hours.
During long-term treatment the triple combination of B+Q+V has no significant advantages over B+Q and B+V by the functional status, QL and parameters of LV remodeling in patients with mild-to-moderate CHF. The combination of B+Q has more potent effect on 24-hour HRV parameters, sympatho-adrenal activity and renal function compared to B+V and B+Q+V groups in CHF patients in our study. The combination B+Q+V may have a negative effect on NH profile (excessive activation of ATII and E) in CHF patients. The triple combination is not recommended for therapy of stable mild-to-moderate CHF patients.
For most patients and with close follow-up available, conservative treatment represents a real alternative to open surgery in major blunt renal lacerations. In our experience, open surgery usually results in loss of renal parenchyma.
Arthroscopic partial meniscectomy in middle aged patients with stable knees and no signs of radiographic osteoarthritis improve pain and function. There were no differences in surgical findings and short term clinical outcome between patients with and without preceding knee injury.
Aging is associated with marked impairment of determinants of NO generation and effect, to an extent which is commensurate with adverse impact on CV outcomes. This deterioration represents a potential target for therapeutic interventions.
Relevant substances threaten human health and the environment by new effects such as CMR, endocrine-disrupting effects or neurotoxicity which are not yet considered in an adequate way by assessment methods and regulatory standards and the application of abatement technologies. The Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals helps to control the sources, but WFD, the Stockholm Convention and UWWTD need to be harmonised and a rolling revision process should react on new developments. Finally, to answer the question if the Stockholm Convention and the WFD (2000/60/EC) could reach the target-I would state that they provide a very valuable frame to approach the targets, but there is still way to go to reach them on an EU level and on a global scale, also under the aspects of the Stockholm Convention and the Millennium Development Goals.
The common belief that posterolateral thoracotomy is a very painful operative access is not true. Therefore it is not necessary to use special techniques for postthoracotomy pain relief in these patients. Patient-controlled analgesia is sufficient for pain relief after major thoracic or abdominal incisions.
FDG, FLT and FMISO-PET reflect different functional characteristics that change during CRT in rectal cancer. FLT and FDG show good spatial correspondence, while FMISO seems less reliable due to the non-specific FMISO uptake in normoxic tissue and tracer diffusion through the bowel wall. FDG and FLT-PET/CT imaging seem most appropriate to integrate in preoperative RT for rectal cancer.
The educational benefits gained by the presence of medical students do not appear to jeopardize the quality of patient care.
In patients with pelvic fractures, hemoperitoneum does not mean peritoneal injury requiring hemostatic procedure. Semiquantitative analysis of the hemoperitoneum improves predictability of peritoneal hemorrhage than qualitative analysis of hemoperitoneum. However, there remains numerous false-positives even in presence of large hemoperitoneum associated with hypotension.
The results suggest that clinical cure of ACL is rarely associated with sterile cure. The implications of persistence of parasites for the clinical evolution, relapse, and transmission of leishmaniasis deserves further studies, particularly with the increasing incidence of coinfection with leishmaniasis and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
Being informed of personal blood cholesterol levels effects an immediate change in eating habits that translates into reduced dietary fat intake.
Inflammatory infiltration, characterized by the presence of eosinophils and CD4+ T cells, was similar in the nasal mucosa in noninfectious rhinitis irrespective of the presence of asthma or the allergic status of the patient.
Although identification error is difficult to eliminate, practical initiatives can engender significant systems improvement in complex health care environments.
Early delivery is associated with prolonged ENT/LOS, suggesting elective delivery at<37weeks is not beneficial. Combined IABD/EABD or IABD/collapsed extra-abdominal bowel is suggestive of complex gastroschisis.
These preliminary results suggest that two antidepressants that appear to have dissimilar mechanisms of action may nevertheless have similar effects on the positive and negative affective components of depression. Alternatively, paroxetine may have a clinically relevant noradrenergic effect at the dose tested.
A simple SJA, diverting the food and biliopancreatic secretion to the distal small bowel, was able to normalize both FBG levels and OGTT in a non-obese diabetic rat model.
The results supported our hypothesis that a loading dose leads to slightly better visual stability in terms of proportions of patients experiencing moderate visual loss, but did not support the hypothesised difference in anatomical outcome.
PPE provision was limited by management's poor perceptions of its efficacy relative to other factors. Future research should explore workers' perceptions and PPE's effectiveness in averting horse-related injury.
Preservation of papillary function after EPBD was not complete but remained somewhat reduced. However, preservation was more successful with EPBD than with EST. Such preservation may be clinically beneficial for the prevention of later complications.
Contrast echocardiography is a rapid, simple and safe technique when performed at bedside in a cardiosurgery post-operative unit setting, permitting accurate both segmental and global wall motion analysis. The use of contrast echocardiography could help to identify causes leading to LV systolic dysfunction immediately after CABG surgery.
Carcinoid tumour of the appendix remains an incidental diagnosis. Patients with carcinoids were significantly older than non-carcinoid conditions. There was a trend of increased occurrence of carcinoids amongst the females. Re-operation rate was low. There was a wide variation in involving the multidisciplinary team, conveying the diagnosis to patients as well as their general practitioners, and follow-ups. This can be perceived as a missed opportunity of selective screening of synchronous and metachronous lesions, raises clinical governance issues and has medicolegal implications.
This result is a surprise taking into consideration the development and discussion in Germany in recent years and in comparison to studies based on alternative approaches to efficiency measurement. The detailed analysis of the studies shows that because of weaknesses and a variety of differences in the methodological structure of the studies a really convincing answer regarding the first question ultimately cannot be derived from the results.
NLR can predict BPH progression. We propose that increased inflammation is negatively associated with clinical status in BPH patients and suggest that NLR can give information along with LUTS severity which may be used as a readikly accessible marker for patient follow-up.
A large clinical trial of vitamin A supplementation with 5000 IU/dose three times/week (25-114% more than the dose used in the three published clinical trials) is needed to assess whether vitamin A supplementation safely reduces the risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia in very-low-birth-weight infants.
Conservative management of patients with a papillary lesion diagnosis may follow when the extended VABB protocol is adopted and a great tissue volume is excised. However, when diagnosing a coexisting papillary lesion with a precursor breast lesion, open surgery should follow, given the high probability of a postoperative cancer diagnosis.
Emergency registrars and consultants sampled from a regional ED appeared unable to reliably identify the 4th or 5th ICS, as evidenced by marker position, in a heterogeneous patient population.
This pan-European registry shows that, while in patients with acute HF, a large heterogeneity of treatments exists, drug treatment of chronic HF can be considered largely adherent to recommendations of current guidelines, when the reasons for non-adherence are taken into account. Observations regarding the real possibility to adhere fully to current guidelines in daily clinical practice should be seriously considered when clinical practice guidelines have to be written.
Only the diabetes and dyslipidemia present in the posttransplantation period were associated with CAV, which highlights the fact that it is a condition that both shares and has different features with atherosclerosis and probably requires a different diagnostic-therapeutic approach.
Although an enlarged, pneumatized turbinate could function as a physical barrier to inhalant allergens, documented allergies demonstrate no association with CB formation. Furthermore, this study finds no correlation between CB and radiographic evidence of CRS.
Drop in LAR and CRP levels may be warning signs regarding the onset of septic complications after severe polytrauma and burn injury.
Healthy men and women do not differ in behavioural measures of visceral pain sensitivity. The pattern of neural activation is comparable in the majority of pain-processing brain regions, although women may differ in the activation of DLPFC which could reflect sex differences in cognitive-emotional pain regulation. Women with lower pain thresholds showed greater neural responses, which may be relevant in the pathophysiology of visceral hyperalgesia.
Among women taking AIs, the coexistence of arthralgia, fatigue, and insomnia was associated with increased levels of inflammatory biomarkers (elevated CRP, eotaxin, MCP-1, and VDBP). These findings suggest a possible shared inflammatory mechanism underlying these common symptoms.
For patients with VS in whom serviceable hearing is preserved following the MCF approach, the long-term hearing outcome remains durable in most patients.
Dynamic US can be used to confirm the diagnosis of midcarpal instability by identifying a triquetral catch-up clunk. Quantification of carpal mobility with US may lead to further insights into the mechanics of MCI.
Our findings demonstrate the continuing need to devote resources to support individuals with DS and their families.
The influence of the ligature or the active or passive self-ligating mechanism is minimal, and slot dimensions are far more important for the transmission of torque. The amount of torque exerted by the active spring clip is approximately 1/10th of the torquing moments recommended in the literature.
For routine use, ONS with enema instead of traditional preparation for colonoscopy with PEG cannot be generally recommended.
The present results do not confirm that thrombocytosis can be seen as marker for poor tumor prognosis.
This study provides empirical evidence that viewing movie depictions of tobacco use is associated with higher receptivity to smoking prior to trying the behavior.
POC use was not associated generally with stage transition and evidence that effects, if missed, must be modest, giving no support to the central tenet of the TTM.
Bupropion SR is an effective smoking cessation aid for women. In these trials, women have less success quitting smoking than men, whether treated with Bupropion SR or placebo. There is a need to understand more about why women are less able to quit.
High sAGEs, a modifiable risk factor for IR, may indicate risk for the MS, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. High dietary AGE consumption and serum AGE levels may link healthy obesity to at-risk obesity.
L-AMB (1000 mg/L) lock solutions strongly inhibited Candida spp. in young and mature biofilms for up to 48 h after the end of the lock. However, overall eradication of the biofilm was not obtained using 1000 mg/L L-AMB as a single lock. These results suggest the usefulness of systemic treatment combined with an L-AMB lock to control Candida spp. biofilms associated with catheters.
Nonreactive NSTs decreased by 58% with the introduction of fetal movement monitoring in our antepartum testing center and increased when the NST-fetal movement-capable monitors were removed. A reduced incidence of nonreactive NSTs associated with NST-Doppler-detected fetal movements should effect a savings in both time and resources.
Several associations were observed between pain status as a young adult and selected self-reported childhood experiences of illness and pain. The role of recall bias cannot be excluded in this retrospective study, but the results emphasize the importance of family and childhood experiences of pain in potentially influencing future adult pain status.
: There were no long-term differences in outcomes between TAH and sub-TAH. The lack of a detrimental effect on bowel and urinary function seen at 12 months was maintained. The deterioration in sexual function is likely to be due to the climacteric.
The increased CAD risk in women for an HDL-C>80 mg/dL in type 1 diabetes merits further study. Gender specificity could not be determined as only two men had HDL-C>80 mg/dL.
Uterine rupture cannot be predicted with either individual or combinations of clinical factors. This has important clinical and medical-legal implications.
The quality of surgery manuscripts can be improved by including a statistician as coauthor, with efforts directed toward implementing multi-institutional/interdisciplinary trials. Peer-review across journals can be standardized through the use of instruments measuring methodologic and clinical quality.
In our cohort of athletes participating in endurance sports, for every serious cardiac adverse event, there were 10 serious events related to heat stroke. One of the heat stroke-related fatalities presented with unheralded cardiac arrest. Our results put in a different perspective the ongoing debate about the role of pre-participation electrocardiographic screening for the prevention of sudden death in athletes.
Women, and sometimes young children, assume the caregiving burden. Ignorance of risks and non-use of protection may predispose these caregivers to infections. Results point to the need for advocacy to improve the working conditions of home-based caregivers by primary health care policy makers. Finally, because the caregivers were sexually inactive, the caregivers that were HIV+ attributed their infections to nursing PLWHA.
CAS is an acceptable alternative to surgery in the management of RCS. An accurate patient selection is required. Restenosis after CEA and direct closure is mostly associated with fibrous material. In these cases CAS might be the best choice.
SRS appears to be a safe and effective treatment option for those patients with a limited number of brain metastases and in patients with controlled or limited systemic disease.
Reduced opportunity to use health services due to rural health and medical workforce shortages was the best-supported explanation for the lower rural complaint rate. Workforce shortages impact on the quality of rural health services and on residents' opportunities to improve their health status.
OSAHS may be a comorbidity in obese psoriasis patients with hypertension. Treatment with continuous positive airway pressure and weight loss interventions should be initiated.
Although the pattern and type of substance use may be different in Iranian culture, our findings about the relationship between ADHD and SUD are similar to other western and non western countries. The presence of ADHD may over-ride cultural barriers and lower availability of drugs to the development of SUD in Iranian adolescents. Early diagnosis and treatment of ADHD may propose with better prognosis of SUD and subsequent decrease in the prevalence of SUD and the costs of SUD-related pathology in this population.
There is a discrepancy between theory and practice regarding the definition of chronic LBP. This discrepancy concerns not only the literature but also clinical practice itself. The term 'chronic' LBP as currently used is therefore equivocal.
Pelvic floor reconstruction and its correct relationship with the lower genitourinary tract may facilitate the development of volitional micturition control. Female patients behaved slightly better than males concerning dry intervals and coordinated bladder activity achievement.
Study findings indicate that the available SCP template lacked adequate content on health history, comorbidity, health promotion, and functioning. These factors constitute the underlying clinical, psychosocial, and behavioral risks for poor disease outcomes that may be exacerbated in AABCS.
The intraoperative use of isometry and fluoroscopy during ACL reconstruction led to changes in the femoral tunnel placement 15% of the time. The influence of these instruments on intraoperative decision making does not seem to diminish with surgical experience.
Women with abnormal-GCT result are at increased risk for adverse pregnancy outcome even in the presence of a normal subsequent OGTT.
In conclusion, PS, stage and serum albumin level were identified as important prognostic factors, while DM at the time of diagnosis of SCLC did not have prognostic importance for survival.
Acidification of urine should be performed before the measurement of Ca, P, and Mg in the presence of urinary crystals. However, the lack of an acidification process does not result in a clinically significant change.
Determination of the type of therapeutic neck dissection depends on patient and tumor characteristics. Selective lateral neck dissection can be applied safely in selected cases.
Outcomes for retransplantation in patients with HCV infection approach agreed criteria for minimum transplant benefit. These data support selective liver retransplantation in patients with HCV infection.
An increased incidence of UTI, pyelonephritis, and wound infection was found in patients with increased BMI. However, they were transient and not life threatening. The continence and voiding patterns were relatively similar. Hence, an NB can be offered to patients with an increased BMI, and they should be formally counseled.
African American race remains the most clinically significant predictor of autologous breast reconstruction, even after controlling for age, obesity, pathologic stage, health insurance type, charge to patient, socioeconomic status, smoking, and diabetes. Future research may address whether this disparity stems from patient preferences or more profound sociocultural and economic forces, including discrimination.CLINICAL QUESTION/
Persons dying of cancer experienced sharp functional decline in the last months of life whereas other decedents' have a more gradual decline. The more precipitous functional decline was associated with hospice involvement and dying at home.
This study confirms that change of partner raises the risk for preeclampsia in subsequent pregnancies. Immune maladaptation on the fetal maternal interface could be an underlying mechanism. Multiparous women with a new partner should be approached as being primigravid women.
The data presented here provide evidence for a model of adhesion for P. gingivalis within the fluid environment of the oral cavity, where preferential binding of matrix-located proteins over soluble forms facilitates colonization of the host.
This evidence does not support the hypothesis that framing effects are a major cause of the failure of clinical trials to influence clinical practice.
The long-term results after CVG or GV were similar, which reflects proper patient selection. Use of a composite valve graft theoretically confers more protection against recurrent aortic root aneurysm, and, unless one opts for a valve-sparing aortic root replacement procedure, is most appropriate for younger patients, those with the MFS (including acute dissections), and others with marked pathological involvement of the sinuses. On the other hand, use of a separate GV should not be abandoned; in carefully selected patients (and if properly performed, eg, excision of the sinuses), GV also provides satisfactory results.
Protruding stents do not cause an increased risk of thrombosis in patients on aspirin. Mild protrusion is more likely in PDA stents and severe protrusion is more likely in the MPA branch stents. Severe protrusion is more likely when more stents are used in the PDA location. There is no statistical evidence that protrusion can cause lung perfusion defects from the small numbers we have.
Our analysis derived in European patients shows that statistical models cannot safely replace renal mass biopsy based prediction of Fuhrman grade III-IV at nephrectomy. Our findings corroborate a report from the United States in which a similar model had 55.6% accuracy. Jointly the studies indicate that statistical models are unreliable and cannot safely be substituted for renal mass biopsy in North American or European patients.
The chance of moderate and severe adhesion reformation after laparoscopic salpingo-ovariolysis was 40.2%. Although separation of these adhesions could be performed more easily at the time of early SLL, the chance of pregnancy did not increase compared with that in patients who did not undergo SLL.
Exogenous insulin use in DM2 patients may contribute to increased plaque vulnerability by stimulating local angiogenesis within atherosclerotic plaques.
Plastic freezer bags as wound protectors in laparoscopic colorectal procedures are cost effective and have SSI and retrieval-site tumor recurrence rates that compare favorably to published data.
The diameters of the common bile duct as measured on sonograms increase slightly after cholecystectomy. Most patients do not have significant compensatory dilatation of the duct after cholecystectomy.
Although threshold electrical stimulation made small improvements in muscle strength, the currently recommended treatment schedules are not practical for patients with myelomeningocele.
Evaluation of post ASA MI is feasible with MDCT by comparison with MR imaging. MDCT might serve as an alternative imaging method in case of PM implantation.
In this study of pediatric chronic liver disease patients, copper cut-off values for distinguishing WD differed substantially from those used for diagnosis. A larger scale study is warranted to re-evaluate liver copper and 24-h urinary copper cut-offs for children with suspected WD.
The results showed some support for the PSOCQ as a potentially useful tool in assessing who may or may not be likely to join a self-management course.
Overweight patients with persistent asthma may have attenuated symptom and FeNO dose responses to inhaled budesonide compared with normal weight patients with asthma, with no differences in FEV(1) or methacholine PC20 between groups. Attenuated cortisol suppression in the overweight group may be the clue to this difference, alluding to reduced peripheral lung deposition or absorption in overweight patients with asthma.
EPs seen at the first ultrasound scan appear to be more symptomatic, larger in diameter and volume compared to EPs which started as PULs. Cumulative surgical intervention rate was noted to be higher in this group with EP seen on ultrasound at the outset.
Antiarrhythmic prophylaxis does not affect the number of AF recurrences during the first 2 months after ablation. SR maintenance during a blanking period after AF ablation is a positive prognostic factor in long-term follow-up. Persistent AF and hypertension are independent risk factors for late AF recurrence after pulmonary vein isolation.
The similar frequency of radiographic joint involvement and patterning in erosive osteoarthritis and more severe non-erosive osteoarthritis is consistent with prevalent erosive osteoarthritis being a severe form of hand osteoarthritis rather than a distinct entity. Metabolic exposures, dyslipidaemia in particular, may be implicated in erosive osteoarthritis.
We identified that decompressive surgery within 24 hours of onset of autonomic symptoms in CESI reduces bladder dysfunction at initial follow-up, but no statistically significant difference in outcome was observed in CESR regarding timing of operation.
In patients with PTE, OSA rates were much higher than in the general population. Moreover, the rate for patients with clinically significant moderate and severe OSA was quite high. PTE patients with OSA symptoms (not syndromes) and without known major risk factor should be examined for OSA. There seems to be a relationship between OSA and PTE. However, whether this relationship is a causal relationship or a relationship due to common risk factors or long-term complications of OSA is not clear. Further comprehensive studies on those special topics are needed to clarify these points.
Our data provide preliminary evidence that concept mapping assessment reflects expected differences and change in the conceptual framework of resident physicians. Concept mapping assessment and standardized testing may measure different cognitive domains. JAMA. 2000;284:1105-1110
The effect of CDAD on the feasibility of the radiotherapy and a concomitant chemotherapy is remarkable. The morbidity of patients is severe with a high lethality.Reducing of risk factors, an intense screening and the use of probiotics as prophylaxis can reduce the incidence of CDAD.
MPTD was an independent prognostic factor in patients with NPC treated using IMRT, and significantly improved the prognostic value of the current T classification criteria for NPC.
Patients with prehospital entrapment are at higher risk for VTE. These results mandate aggressive VTE prophylaxis in patients with histories of prehospital entrapment.
Preoperative big endothelin-1 levels seem to correlate with the hemodynamic alterations observed in pulmonary thromboendarterectomy and may be used to predict hemodynamic outcome after pulmonary thromboendarterectomy.
To the extent that there is an association between food environment and youth BMI, the existence of more types of food outlets in an area, including supermarkets, is associated with higher BMI.
In patients with Blount's disease, visual inspection of the extremity can underestimate the procurvatum deformity of the proximal tibia relative to the measurable deformity on radiographs. Furthermore, surgical correction of proximal tibial procurvatum does not lead to clinical hyperextension of the knee.
Histological evidence of HGPIN is unlikely to be detected in the healthy or hyperplastic canine prostate gland with the clinically-procured biopsy. This might diminish the usefulness of canine HGPIN in temporal studies of chemoprevention of prostate cancer. HGPIN was found simultaneously with prostatic carcinoma in more than one-third of the carcinomas examined.
This study did not find evidence of a cancer-longevity trade-off in humans. On the contrary, it suggested that longevity in one twin is associated with lower cancer incidence in the cotwin, indicating familial factors associated with both low cancer occurrence and longevity.
Overall treatment effects were small and non-significant. A subgroup, however, reported improved functioning as a result of treatment. Responders had lower catastrophizing scores.
In patients with significant stenosis at the carotid bifurcation undergoing evaluation for carotid endarterectomy, aortic arch angiography is unnecessary except in a small percentage of patients with abnormal clinical and non-invasive findings.
This study shows that in patients suffering from large MCA infarction early EEG delivers useful information to select those patients who develop malignant edema.
Oral myiasis can be treated effectively with surgery after topical application of sulfuric ether. The use of drugs may suggest a therapeutic alternative, but still requires further study and experience to be implemented, especially in individuals with neurological disorders.
Together, these results indicate relatively universal left/right assignments to the fingers of a hand held in canonical postures and interindividually variable (but intraindividually consistent) assignments for less canonical postures. The task appears suitable for the quantification of representational neglect, especially in backspace.
In our series, reaching a high degree of flexion did not influence surface damage or 3D deviation of the polyethylene inserts.
supine haemodynamic measures derived from transthoracic ICG can simply, non-invasively and sensitively differentiate HUT-positive patients from those with negative tilt tests. Further work is needed, particularly in older patients, before this technique can be used in clinical practice.
Black race is an independent predictor of definite drug-eluting stent ST. Because clopidogrel compliance was higher in black patients and socioeconomic status was not associated with ST, further investigation into the potential mechanisms of this influence of race on ST must be pursued.
In South Taiwan, there was a high frequency of bulbomembranous urethral adenocarcinoma, which might be associated with chronic arsenic exposure. Although the implications of such an observation are minimal owing to its rarity, it is worth exploring.
An ELISA with structurally defined ABH antigens will allow the antibody class and fine specificity of ABO antibodies to be determined, which may improve risk assessment in ABO-incompatible transplantation.
In support of the findings of Matchock, right 2D:4D was found to be negatively related to AAM. In addition, right 2D:4D was positively related to RPD. In a sample of 19 countries, mean right 2D:4D was negatively correlated with mean national AAM. These findings suggest that women with high prenatal testosterone and low prenatal estrogen tend to show late menarche and slow pubertal development.
Living in an activity-friendly environment is associated with positive relationships between parent perceptions and active commuting behaviors in children. Future interventions should account for both the perceived neighborhood environment and available physical activity infrastructure.
Psychological effects of both general and race-based discrimination, and the unique contributions of distinct sources of social support, are important to understanding adjustment and cultural transition among Asian Americans. Nativity differentially influences effects of unfair treatment. Implications for future research are discussed.
The yield of inpatient abdominal imaging for abnormal LFTs correlates only weakly with both the severity and the extent of different abnormal LFTs. Further research is needed to define the optimal imaging strategies for evaluating inpatients with suspected hepatobiliary disease.
Over 100 years after her death, the impact Florence Nightingale still has on professional nursing practice remains. Scholarship in nursing education today is infused with a liberal arts background in philosophy, ethics, and the sciences. Nightingale's holistic concepts of person, health, and environment in the practice of nursing coalesced with her statistical analyses in validating nursing actions foreshadowed the development of universal nursing knowledge and language base and meta-paradigm concepts in nursing. Further classification and categorization of Nightingale's concepts of assessing, implementing, and evaluating delivery of care became the linguistic precursors for the identification of nursing process, nursing actions, and nursing diagnoses.
Progressive increase was seen in the plaque scores with increase in toothbrush bristle flaring.
Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis reliably detects MEN 2A. Modest calcitonin elevations may lead to a false-positive diagnosis of MTC. DNA testing is the optimal approach to evaluating MEN 2A. Index cases of sporadic MTC should also undergo DNA analysis.
Discharge BNP levels in acute HF patients reflected volemia and disease severity. Persistently high BNP levels during hospitalization should raise the possibility of remaining congestion, which could negatively influence prognosis. The utility of BNP as prognostic marker in HF may reside on its ability to reflect multiple underlying pathophysiological disturbances.
Women with acute stroke experienced greater emergency department delays than men, which were not attributable to differences in presenting symptoms, time of arrival, age, or other confounders.
Low-fidelity simulators can be used to teach and assess knowledge of TEP and OIH anatomy. While enjoyable and useful, one 3-h session does not create master hernia surgeons or expert anatomists out of novice trainees.
Significant differences in mortality after blunt injury were seen between insurance types, even among those commonly grouped in other studies. Policymakers may use this information to implement programs to monitor and reduce insurance-related disparities.
Early cancer associated with BE is far more commonly found in the right hemisphere of the esophagus (12 to 6 o'clock) with the highest rate in the 12 to 3 o'clock quadrant. These findings support enhanced scrutiny of the right hemisphere of the esophagus during surveillance and endoscopic treatment of patients with BE.
It is currently impossible to monitor trends in the prevalence rate of disabling disorders in childhood using the child health information systems. Agreement about ways of collecting, recording, and collating information on disability would be a useful step towards realising the full potential of these systems.
It may be possible to use MAC antibodies as an indicator of postoperative relapse/recurrence for MAC lung disease.
The results indicate that estradiol tightly regulates calreticulin expression in normal human T cells, and the dynamics are different between activated and resting T cells. The absence of this tight regulation in SLE T cells could contribute to abnormal T cell function.
While our study provided no major support for routine testing with anti-dsDNA, C3, C4, or Clq binding, additional longitudinal studies are needed to assess monthly testing of anti-dsDNA as a predictor of flare in SLE.
Chemotherapy for the first testicular tumour does not eliminate the risk of developing a contralateral tumour. Despite careful follow-up, in most patients the second primary tumour was not diagnosed early enough to avoid chemotherapy. The focal nature of IGCN in the second testis in most patients questions the value of biopsy of the contralateral testis. Improved methods of detecting patients at risk of second testicular tumours are needed.
FI may be used as a predictor for the evaluation of elderly patients' clinical outcomes in ICUs.
In spite of the advances in the diagnostic and imaging techniques, the rates of negative findings on appendicectomy have not decreased much. Clinical judgment is still the most important factor in the management of patients with suspected acute appendicitis. The routine use of CT scan or diagnostic laparoscopy for all patients who are suspected to have appendicitis is neither cost-effective nor safe.
In a low-resource setting, the adjuvant postoperative long-acting gestagen therapy has proven to be superior in inducing amenorrhea after hysteroscopic TCRE.
Donor liver quality in terms of graft type (DCD) has no influence on cancer related survival in transplant for HCC (hazards ratio, 1.143; 95% confidence interval, 0.528-2.423; P = 0.752).
Implementation of the ACA has saved women a substantial amount in out-of-pocket expenses for contraceptives.
Curcumin can prevent and ameliorate NASH via lipid reduction, improve insulin resistance, improve anti-inflammatory, and have antioxidant effects, possibly related to its activation of Nrf2.
Patients who died in the ICU did not have informed discussions of end-of-life or palliative care as an alternative treatment option before admission. The quality of end-of-life care was disrupted for patients with fatal pre-existing chronic disease who were admitted to the ICU before death. Lack of clinical experience, knowledge and competency with end-of-life care influenced admission of patients to ICU regardless of poor prognosis. Decisions regarding the pursuit of aggressive therapy versus palliative care must be addressed with patients by physicians who are competent and experienced in end-of-life care as this will have a profound impact on both the quality of care delivered and effective use of limited hospital resources.
A positive result on an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ANCA test, as it is currently ordered, is not a definitive diagnostic indicator of AAV. Compliance with guidelines for ANCA testing would decrease the number of false-positive results and has the potential to reduce total test expenditures.
On the basis of the high prevalence found in our study, we suggest that all male patients with DS should be screened for TM in childhood.
The association between sleep problems and migraine that is not solely explained by comorbid anxiety disorders or depression suggests that sleep problems should be evaluated among people with migraine.
An increased echocardiographic shunt grade correlates with an increased probability of PAVMs seen on chest HRCT scans. Only patients with a TTCE grade 3 displayed PAVMs on chest HRCT scans that were large enough for embolotherapy.
Echo-PIV appears feasible. Velocity estimates are accurate, but the maximal detectable velocity depends strongly on acquisition parameters. Direction estimation works sufficiently, even at higher velocities. Echo-PIV appears to be a promising technical approach to investigate flow patterns by echocardiography.
Meconium passage increases the risk of postpartum endometritis but not chorioamnionitis. Length of labor, internal monitoring, and number of vaginal exams are risk factors for chorioamnionitis.
We found no significant correlation among the level of experience, the self-reported ability and actual performance when students were assessed under direct observation.
Irrespective of preservation of the posterior branch of the great auricular nerve, sensory deficit improved over time. Therefore, preservation of the posterior branch of the great auricular nerve might not be necessary during parotidectomy.
If, at the time of ultrasound-guided needle core biopsy of BI-RADS assessment category 4 and 5 breast lesions, the radiologist is>90% confident that the lesion has been adequately sampled, a single pass is usually sufficient for diagnosis.
The appearance of the Deflux mound and lack of hydrodistention at the completion of the procedure are not reliable predictors of outcome. Based on this experience, postoperative voiding cystourethrogram is still required to truly determine reflux resolution.
The data indicates that the decline in DHEAS is an age-related process rather than a causative factor of erectile dysfunction; total cholesterol and mainly LDL-ch may contribute to erectile dysfunction, especially in younger men.
In the case of well-defined risk factors in which a lymphadenectomy is indicated according to current guidelines from the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics, a PALN dissection should be extended up to the renal vessels. We also conclude that tumor grade, histologic type, and myometrial invasion cannot be used as markers to decide on supramesenteric lymphadenectomy in endometrial cancer.
Surgical resection of subsequent isolated adrenal metastasis with a disease-free interval longer than 6 months can lead to long-term survival in patients with previous complete resection of the primary NSCLC.
HEMS beneficial effect on survival seems to be limited to patients with physiologic instability. Physiologically stable patients seem to have a worse outcome when transported by air.
Women who develop post-Cesarean infections have higher initial recovery-room temperatures than those who do not develop such infections. This suggests the presence of subclinical infection at the time of Cesarean. Evaluating whether intraoperative warming has any role during Cesarean delivery requires a randomized clinical trial.
Fetuses with the lowest umbilical venous flow rates are at increased risk of a subsequent diagnosis of intrapartum fetal compromise. Measurement of umbilical venous flow could contribute to the risk stratification of pregnancies prior to labor.
Increased homocysteine concentrations in CBS gene mutation carriers are associated with reduced concentrations of folic acid and vitamin B12 in blood. In view of the adverse effects of mild hyperhomocysteinemia, routine testing of vitamin status in parents of homocystinuria patients may be warranted. The causal relationship and pathophysiological consequences are uncertain; it is likely that CBS gene mutation carriers need higher doses of dietary vitamins.
All parameters suggest favourable outcome for the simple nephrectomy group, supporting the use of this terminology. This implies "simple" nephrectomies are truly easier to perform with less complication than their radical counterpart.
The incidence of hospital mortality in very old patients found in our study is comparable to that reported by other authors. Patients who need mechanical ventilation over 48h, and with higher scores in the APACHE II scale could be at a higher risk of in-hospital mortality.
The results suggest that being tall is a predictor for back surgery.
Sponsored-research funding by newly recruited assistant professors can be modeled as a sequential series of uncertain events and used to predict consequences of imminent changes in federal funding for biomedical research.
The probability of adrenal metastasis correlates with primary tumour stage, but not with its location within the kidney. The preoperative diagnostics are not reliable concerning small adrenal metastases. We thus still recommend simultaneous adrenalectomy in those cases where radical nephrectomy in patients with RCC is indicated.
News frames invoking key tenets of the 'rule of rescue' dominated television discourse on Herceptin. Clinicians, patients, their families and patient advocacy groups invoking the rule of rescue can increase the likelihood of achieving their objective of gaining access to expensive healthcare such as pharmaceuticals. Rational, criteria-based public health policy will find it hard to resist the rule of rescue imperative.
Conjunctival melanoma is a rare malignancy traditionally managed with aggressive treatment to optimize local control. The role for staging parotidectomy with or without neck dissection has been heavily debated. Based on our review, parotidectomy only needs to be undertaken when high suspicion for metastatic spread is present, such as a palpable or radiographically evident mass. In addition, without documented parotid disease, neck dissection is not required.
Our study suggests that functional decline should not be required for the diagnosis of mild AD.
In adolescents, the ratio of LF-dBPV/HF-HRV may be an alternative method for calculating sympathicovagal balance being less influenced by breathing patterns. In younger patients with elevated resting heart rate, but also in patients with very low HRV such as TX-patients this method could be a supplemental diagnostic tool whenever autonomic nervous control on the cardiocirculatory system has to be assessed.
Iterative reconstruction of (123)I-FP-CIT SPECT studies for the assessment of DAT is feasible in routine clinical practice. A close correlation between FBP and OSEM data suggested that the latter also allow reliable quantification of DAT binding. Because of a better separation between the caudate and the putamen in the visual evaluation, as suggested by phantom and patient studies, OSEM may even be considered the preferable approach.
Regardless of type of malformation, short-term neurodevelopmental outcome of children with gastrointestinal anomalies including diaphragmatic hernia falls within normal range, suggesting that neither being born with a CA nor its type is per se a risk factor for neurodevelopmental delay.
Authors found no change in patient self-care agency between hospital admission and discharge. Outcomes may have been due to the inappropriate choice of the conceptual framework applied for acute care settings or to the insufficient length of the study. A longitudinal approach to observe long-term improvement of self-care capabilities is recommended.
When added to a rapid test for TB plus RIF-resistance, detection of INH-resistance has minimal impact on transmission of TB, MDR-TB, and INH-monoresistant TB.
In this experimental setting no additional benefit for kidney function could be detected, when under conditions of ischaemia kidneys were perfused with 4 degrees Ringer's lactate plus 1000 IU of heparin/l plus 20 micrograms PGE1/l compared to kidneys perfused with the same solution without PGE1.
The implementation of clinical pharmacists' prepared protocol helped to a great extent in the improvement of administrating DVT prophylaxis appropriately in patients.
Postal questionnaires are likely to capture morbidity (hospitalization) among women and men aged 65-80 years old and mortality among men, while morbidity after age 80 and mortality in women are likely to be underestimated.
Axillary radionuclide uptake predicts but does not augment dye-directed SN identification. In those few patients with isolated internal mammary drainage, BL may obviate the need for surgical staging of the axilla.
Increasing QRS duration was an independent predictor of cardiac mortality in patients with RBBB, but had no influence on all-cause mortality. QRS duration has added prognostic information to the presence of right bundle branch block.
Based on these findings, overnight observation is recommended with an apnea monitor and oximeter for patients undergoing a T and/or A who have OSAS and meet any of the following high-risk clinical criteria: (1)<2 years of age, (2) craniofacial anomalies affecting the pharyngeal airway particularly midfacial hypoplasia or micro/retrognathia, (3) failure to thrive, (4) hypotonia, (5) cor pulmonale, (6) morbid obesity, and (7) previous upper airway trauma; or high-risk PSG criteria: (1) respiratory distress index (RDI)>40 and (2) SaO2 nadir<70%; or undergoing a UPPP in addition to the T and/or A. Nasal CPAP/bilevel CPAP can be used to manage the preoperative and/or postoperative upper airway obstruction in patients with OSAS undergoing a T and/or A.
FVP cannot be used as a surrogate measure of IAP unless IAP is above 20 mmHg.
Our observations suggest NE plays an important role in generating lumbar radicular pain mainly via α(2)-adrenoceptors.
These results indicate that increased total tau may be useful in the discrimination of neurosyphilis from syphilis without nervous system involvement.
Poor nutritional status as measured by the Mini Nutritional Assessment was associated with increased in-hospital mortality, a higher rate of discharge to nursing homes and a longer length of stay.
The instrument reliably assessed knowledge and skills in evidence based medicine. An intensive 3 day course in evidence based medicine led to a significant increase in knowledge and skills.
Recurrent abdominal pain associated with gastric mucosal injury plays a role in a decrease in BMI independent of H. pylori infection. However, if recurrent abdominal pain originates from H. pylori infection, it appears that linear growth is also affected.
The present findings suggest that women would have as good self-rated health as men if they had similar financial security as men and were not treated in a condescending manner to a larger extent than men. Longitudinal studies are, however, required to confirm this conclusion.
The results showed that less than half of the women with PFD completed a PFMT programme to which they were referred by gynaecologists and urologists. The most important associated factors for completion were age, year of referral and nationality.
This multicenter analysis of a large Australian population of hospital stroke admissions demonstrates short-term benefits from implementing stroke units in nonprincipal referral hospitals.
This pilot study suggests that it might be feasible and safe to mobilize patients shortly after lumbar disc surgery. There were no indications of an increased number of postoperative complications.
The addition of total laparoscopic hysterectomy to laparoscopic pelvic floor repair adds approximately 35 minutes to surgical time with no difference in the rate of perioperative or postoperative complications or prolapse outcome. Leaving the uterus in situ, however, is associated with a risk of cervical elongation potentially requiring further surgery. Laparoscopic pelvic floor repair is successful in 80% of patients at 2 years.
IDA patients have a high frequency of migraine headache. The presence of anxiety and depression have great influence on the presence of migraine in IDA patients.
Our results demonstrate that inflammatory mesenteric diseases are heterogeneous: high components of plasma cells, eosinophils and TCD8+ lymphocytes were found respectively in 46, 23 and 80 % of cases; eosinophils were observed exclusively in sclerotic forms. Only 31 % of cases encompass numerous IgG4+ plasma cells, suggesting a pathogenesis different than hyper-IgG4 diseases.
These results suggest that when judging laryngeal adduction using perceptual information, judgments may not be accurate when the stimuli are of differing formant patterns.
Results seem to suggest that experts in mental health promotion might want to take into account socioeconomic differences in attitudes and coping skills which may influence psychosocial adjustment and health among youth. While parents from lower social classes may lack the necessary material and psychosocial resources, therapy sessions and special programs could contribute to strengthening certain attitudes (such as optimism) and thus lowering social inequalities in health later in adulthood.
Apoptosis of cardiac cells is increased in myocarditis and dilated cardiomyopathy, being highest in severe active myocarditis. Apoptosis thus contributes to cell death in active myocarditis and may play a role not to be neglected in dilated cardiomyopathy. Enteroviruses seem to have anti-apoptotic effects, because no apoptosis at all was found in the myocardium.
Dual-source parallel RF transmission has some added value for improving breast image quality. However, its value is limited in terms of improving lesion detection and characterization.
Direct diagnostic and therapeutic LLETZ for the management of cervical HGSIL may be a better alternative to colposcopy. This method of treatment avoids the possibility of under-treatment and is associated with an acceptable over-treatment rate, especially for postmenopausal women with cytological HGSIL. LLETZ has a good diagnostic accuracy with minimal morbidity and, most importantly, may help reduce patient anxicty, although further studies are needed to directly examine this effect.
It could not be established that a focusing illusion contributes significantly to the discrepancy in QOL ratings of patients and nonpatients. Further research should explore other factors that could contribute to the discrepancy or other ways of testing for the influence of a focusing illusion.
Secular increases in fast food availability and access to televised entertainment may contribute to increasing obesity rates in the United States.
Patients found the automated interactive calling, combined with a health risk forecast, both viable and useful, welcoming the information and tools it offered. In many cases, it added to patients' understanding of their illness and promoted better self-management. Future research should focus on the potential impact of the service in terms of health outcomes and cost-effectiveness.
Numbers of black Caribbean adults newly diagnosed and accessing treatment and care services in England, Wales, and Northern Ireland increased between 1997 and 2001. Despite a high prevalence of diagnosed bacterial STIs, prevalence among Caribbean born heterosexuals remains low, but it is high among MSM. Surveillance data highlight the need for targeted HIV prevention among black Caribbeans.
The occurrence of mutations in samples reported as SqCC was higher than expected. This questions the reliability of the original diagnosis, which reinforced the recommendation to evaluate the opportunity for testing non-adenocarcinoma cytology on a case-by-case basis. In spite of CAP/IASLC/AMP recommendations, cell blocks were underutilized for EGFR testing, but cytological slides were suitable for DNA analyses. Significant efforts are needed to avoid delays in outsourcing cytological samples for EGFR testing.
There was no evidence from this trial among adolescent smokers that positive effectiveness of the proactive telephone intervention for smoking abstinence, observed previously at one year post-intervention, was sustained for the long-term into young adulthood. In light of the positive short-term effectiveness consistently observed from this and other trials for teen smokers, together with the lack of evidence from this study that such short-term impact can endure into young adulthood, sustained interventions that continue into young adulthood should be developed and tested for long-term impact.
Our data raise the question if BFNC can indeed be described as a benign disorder, and which are the genetic and/or environmental factors that influence the outcome.
In patients with serious illness, economic hardship on the family is associated with preferences for comfort care over life-extending care. However, economic hardship on the family does not appear to be a factor in patient-surrogate disagreements about the goal of care.
With our current margin formalisms, target coverage was maintained in the presence of respiratory motion up to 17 mm for both PSPT and IMRT. Only 2 of 11 4D-3D indices (lung V5 and spinal cord maximum) were statistically distinguishable between PSPT and IMRT, contrary to the notion that proton therapy will be more susceptible to respiratory motion. Because of the lack of strong correlations with 4D-3D dose differences in PSPT and IMRT, the extent of tumor motion was not an adequate predictor of potential dosimetric error caused by breathing motion.
These results suggest that there may be differences in implant positioning in early versus late learning curve procedures, but that in the absence of recognized risk factors such as intra-operative notching of the femoral neck and cup inclination in excess of 50 degrees, component positioning does not appear to be associated with failure. Nevertheless, surgeons should exercise caution in operating patients with small femoral necks, especially when they are early in the learning curve.
Downsizing to ypT0-2 tumors can be accurately predicted by combining morphologic tumor staging predictions with results from volumetric analyses. MR images obtained after radiation therapy with concomitant chemotherapy might be helpful in more individualized treatment planning.
In patients with germ cell testicular tumors, high MT expression, as detected by immunohistochemistry, predicts a better response rate to chemotherapy whereas tumors lacking or demonstrating low MT expression show a worse prognosis. These data do not support the hypothesis that MT overexpression contributes to cisplatinum resistance, at least in this tumor type.
NEI-VFQ questions regarding the quality of general vision, social functioning, visual dependency, near vision and colour vision are strongly and independently associated with an objective measure of visual impairment in an elderly population.
There is no difference in surgical site bacterial recolonization between early and delayed showering after primary TKA.
This large, exploratory study identified 1 biologically plausible SNP that warrants further study in the response of breathlessness to morphine therapy.
PEP may be a transdiagnostic process with relevance to a broad range of anxiety disorders, not just SAD.
We interpret our observations as hallmarks of premature thymus ageing in heterozygous Lurcher mice with only a marginal effect in the periphery in early adulthood.
Between 2006 and 2010, presentations of the highest level of evidence at AANA meetings were subsequently published at a similar rate to presentations of lower levels of evidence, albeit in journals with higher IFs.
Increased requirement for ongoing GP contact in less healthy elderly people appears to help minimize their risk of unplanned hospitalization due to PIM-related harm. GPs should continue to avoid Beers medications in older patients where possible, given their greater predisposition to medication exposure (including PIM) and adverse drug events. Nevertheless, close monitoring of elderly patients who need to use PIM should prove beneficial.
These results indicate that both coati and raccoons may be able to control T. cruzi infection. Thus, the role as efficient reservoirs could be questioned (at least for those times when mammals are able to tolerate the infection). However, while infected, they may also be able to approach human dwellings and play a role important in linking sylvatic and domestic cycles.
MION provides intra- and extracellular contrast enhancement. The area of the contrast-enhanced tumor is dose-dependently greater with MION than with Gd-DTPA and also greater than the extent of tumor seen at histological study.
The results suggest that fetoplacental vascular resistance per se does not contribute to increased NT and that measurement of the umbilical artery PI does not contribute to the first-trimester detection of fetal trisomy 21.
KRAS mutant tumors had a lower DCR after the first-line platinum-based CT, but this difference did not translate in PFS or OS. The presence of KRAS mutations may confer a more aggressive disease, with greater baseline incidence of hepatic and cerebral metastases.
Electronic containers may lead to a small increase in adherence but this potential limitation is outweighed by their advantages. Our findings support electronic monitoring as the method of choice in research on medication adherence. (Trial registration Current Controlled Trials ISRCT N30522359).
Our study suggests that the possibility of calculi development in kidneys, which have more anteriorly localized pelvic angulation tends to be significantly higher in individuals, who did not have any congenital or acquired renal pathology before.
These findings suggest that elevated BMI is not a biologically significant predictor of diminished GFR and therefore may be an insufficiently accurate measure of risk for the metabolic syndrome and CKD.
A significant correlation was found between subjects whose attitudes towards old age in the present were negative and those who subjectively defined their health as bad.
The prevalence of testicular torsion did not change in relation with the seasons. However, it was determined that its prevalence was directly proportional to the air temperature, and increased particularly below 15 °C.
Our findings suggest that the timing, more than the type, of postnatal follow-up after an early obstetrical discharge could make a difference.
International doctors hold different views about the use (or not) of chaperones within their clinical practice and its effect on the doctor-patient consultation. Further research is needed to tease out the reasons for this.
First of all, we found a recurrence rate of 2.9% similar to the lowest of the other procedures. Regarding morbidity, the main inconvenience consists in postoperative hydrocele. It occurred in 13% of our 1st series (group A), but only in 4.1% of patients after reversion or resection of the vaginalis tunica. Average postoperative testicular volume increases after varicocelectomy in our patients, even if not significantly. About sparing the testicular artery or not it has been demonstrated that ligation of this artery doesn't impair testicular growth up and our own observations confirm this evidence. Thus we believe it to be more useful and safe to interrupt this artery to avoid recurrences due to a periarterial venous network. Finally we can conclude that sub-inguinal ligature of dilated veins, when approached with rigorous understanding of the pathophysiology of varicocele is a very safe procedure and low cost effectiveness.
The results add to the literature indicating the importance of including measures of wealth in health research for what they may reveal about disparities not only between but also within different racial/ethnic groups.
Bacopa significantly improved memory acquisition and retention in healthy older Australians. This concurs with previous findings and traditional use. Bacopa caused GIT side-effects of increased stool frequency, abdominal cramps, and nausea.
This 4-year experiment in mid-career faculty retraining in geriatrics suggests that this approach is a viable alternative to traditional 2-year fellowships for helping to reduce the shortage of faculty in geriatric medicine.
A history of infertility is not a major factor in postpartum depression. However, a history of depression may contribute to its development during pregnancy and in the postpartum period. Infertile women who experience severe anxiety and stress could be more prone to depression and should therefore be monitored closely.
Research ethics committees and scientific reviewers may find the guiding principles in this paper a useful starting point for further reflection and discussion about narrative research studies.
Aspirate smears reflect bone marrow iron stores more reliably than formic acid decalcified trephine biopsy sections. The presence of iron in Perls' stained aspirates in 44% of cases with negative Perls' stained sections indicates that iron is often lost from sections during decalcification. However, 61% of cases with unassessable aspirate samples had a positive trephine biopsy Perls' stain, contributing useful clinical information about iron status. Preparation of Perls' stained sections only in cases in which aspirate samples are inadequate for iron assessment and no obvious haemosiderin is present in an H&E stained section could produce savings in staff time and reagent costs.
The African American news media sampled are less likely than mainstream news media to portray negative cancer outcomes and end-of-life care. Given media's segmented audiences, these findings raise concerns that not all audiences are being informed equally well. Because media content is modifiable, there may be opportunities to improve public cancer communication.
The findings indicate that large mergers involving radical restructuring of the treatment process may improve efficiency as intended, but most mergers do not.
In a population with syncope of unknown origin, tilt testing potentiated with nitroglycerin: a) makes a significant contribution to clarifying diagnosis and is of equal value in both elderly and younger patients; and b) is associated with a higher incidence of neurocardiogenic vasodepressor response in the elderly, although with a similar rate of exaggerated responses to nitrates.
Gallbladder distention as a sonographic sign is associated with a high relative risk for conversion. The predictive value of sonographic signs for conversion requires further assessment in a prospective study.
It is difficult to foretell the exact birth weight and the mode of delivery, therefore occurrence of shoulder dystocia is highly unpredictable. Regular drills for shoulder dystocia and awareness of increased incidence with instrumental deliveries are important to reduce fetal and maternal morbidity and mortality.
The results from each group compare favourably with the published series of patients undergoing early active motion, where mobilisation is commenced almost immediately. The authors' preference is the static regime as it is simple, effective and particularly useful in poorly compliant patients.
US-FNAB has similar diagnostic efficacy to thyroid nodules with different sizes.
Inadequate weight gain poses benefits and risks to mothers and infants, but is preferable to excessive gain. The risks and benefits apply differently to class I versus class II/III obese women, indicating the need for weight gain recommendations by obesity class.
Cultural activities at work vary according to business cycle and have a statistical association with mental employee health, particularly with emotional exhaustion.
P-gp inhibition with TQD leads to region-dependent effect in the rat brain, with probably sub-optimal effect in cerebellum. This warrants attention when it is used as a reference region for quantitative studies.
Both techniques were equally effective in the reduction in IOP in the management of congenital glaucoma, but viscotrabeculotomy did not appear to add more benefit to the surgical outcome than classic trabeculotomy.
These results extend the gateway hypothesis to an ADHD sample and provide evidence that this effect may be particularly robust in ADHD youth. If replicated in larger, community-based samples, these findings have important public health consequences, and underscore the already pressing need to prevent smoking in ADHD children.
Routine audiometric findings can be used to identify patients who are likely to meet cochlear implant candidacy upon formal testing. For example, patients with pure-tone thresholds (250, 500, 1,000 Hz) of ≥75 dB and/or a monosyllabic word recognition test score of ≤40% have a high likelihood of meeting candidacy criteria. Utilization of these predictive patterns during routine audiometric evaluation may assist hearing health professionals in deciding when to refer patients for a formal cochlear implant evaluation.
Limiting the number of simultaneously activated electrode pairs to 2 significantly reduces the rate of ACE in patients treated with a multielectrode duty-cycled phased radiofrequency catheter system for AF. This reduction corresponds with a significant prolongation of the total procedure time.
Both small and large PE particles are present after TDR revision surgery compatible with both THA and TKA wear patterns. The similarities between periprosthetic tissue reactions in the different groups may give more insight into the clinical relevance of PE particles and inflammatory cells in the lumbar spine. The current findings may help to improve TDR design as applied from technologies previously developed in THA and TKA with the goal of a longer survival of TDR.
This study supports the theory that urine dilution is not a random happening and it may adversely affect the integrity of the drug-testing process.
Gleason score can predict with very high accuracy prostate cancer-specific mortality in patients undergoing radical prostatectomy. Thus, Gleason score should be given more weight in nomograms to predict prostate cancer-specific mortality. Furthermore, men with a high Gleason score should be given special consideration for adjuvant treatment or referral to clinical trials because of a higher risk of prostate cancer-specific mortality.
A single question about alcohol can detect at-risk drinking and current alcohol-use disorders with clinically useful positive and negative predictive values.
This study suggests that moderate alcohol consumption during pregnancy may increase a woman's risk of giving birth to a child with renal agenesis or hypoplasia.
These findings suggest that at least heavy smokers significantly underestimate their risk of premature mortality.
In a population of active duty US military personnel, we observed an increase in postdeployment respiratory symptoms and medical encounters for obstructive pulmonary diseases, relative to predeployment rates, in the absence of an association with cumulative deployment duration or total number of deployments.
AVR with small size Freestyle subcoronary implants is associated with a high incidence of PPM and high mortality.
In our community, although the prevalence of NSSP among isolates of S pneumoniae identified from the nasopharynx of symptomatic children is high (48%), the probability of NSSP-A infection among symptomatic children is<5%. Our data support a recommendation to treat most children who have uncomplicated AOM with standard-dose amoxicillin. Children who attend child care or have recently received an antibiotic may require treatment with high-dose amoxicillin. Other communities may benefit from a similar assessment of the prevalence of NSSP and NSSP-A.
There is no statistically significant difference between the cancer rates of palpable and nonpalpable BI-RADS category 3 masses seen on sonography.
Effective policy and prevention for drinking in licensed premises requires a comprehensive approach that takes into account the entire drinking occasion (not just drinking that occurs in the licensed environment), as well as the 'determined drunkenness' goal of some young people.
No absolute requirement to sterilize the handengine is warranted. It is prudent however to sterilize the chuck in a steam autoclave and gas sterilize the motor/handpiece to eliminate the rare possibility of cross-contamination.
Off-pump CABG improves early mortality rate when compared with conventional revascularization. Despite a greater operative mortality, however, long-term survival is improved in the patients revascularized with CPB as compared with the off-pump cohort, suggesting possible advantages from a more complete revascularization in this population.
Neonates cannulated for ECLS after the first week of life had greater mortality despite lower CNS hemorrhage than neonates receiving ECLS earlier. Premature infants cannulated after 1 week had fewer CNS hemorrhages than premature infants treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation starting within the first week of life.
The results of this study show a clear increase of pertussis incidence in the Valencian Community during 2011.
Among infants with respiratory distress, plasma N-BNP measurements can differentiate between acute heart failure and lung disease and can be used to monitor the effects of treatment for infants with heart failure.
Results of the study showed that patients with CCM benefited from anterior cervical discectomy and fusion with instrumentation or cervical corpectomy and fusion with instrumentation procedures despite insufficient decompression of the spinal canal. Fusion of the affected level(s) might be the reason for the acquired high recovery rates. The authors also conclude that the neurological improvement is not correlated with the reversal of or decrease in the intramedullary high-intensity signal change after surgery.
This retrospective study demonstrates 16G needles provide more glomeruli, more diagnostically adequate renal tissue, with fewer cores without a significant increase in complications compared with 18G needles. Based on these observations, 16G needles should be considered as the first line option in native-kidney PRB.
LA for simple appendicitis can be performed safely with many techniques. The intracorporeal procedure allows for a shorter operating time, but can dramatically increase the costs of the disposable instruments that are required.
Sarcoidosis is a non-caseating, granulomatous, epithelioid inflammation. Otorhinolaryngological manifestations occur in approximately 10 per cent of patients; however, there is little published experience of nasal reconstruction in such patients. We describe a quick, simple and relatively cost-effective technique, with little or no co-morbidity, with which to improve the aesthetic and symptomatic outcomes of nasal sarcoidosis.
Chronic airway obstruction related to long-term exposure to cotton dust may be partially reversible after the exposure ceases, although lung function does not return to the level found in unexposed workers.
Carnival has no influence on the increase in the occurrence of gonorrhea, syphilis, and trichomoniasis in patients attending a STD clinic in Niterói, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
This study has demonstrated that well-nourished and medically stable HD and CAPD patients without clinical signs of dementia or cognitive impairment and without significant difference in age and level of education performed all tests of cognitive-motor abilities without statistically significant difference.
IMRT is a well tolerable technique for routine treatment of localized prostate cancer, with short and medium-term acceptable toxicity profiles. According to the data presented here, rigid compliance to DHV constraints might prevent higher incidences of normal tissue complication.
Doing both vigorous and moderate activity does not have significant additional benefits in terms of HT and DS, above those from moderate-intensity activity alone, except at very high levels of PA.
Sphere volume does not affect the performance of 3D-PDA. We recommend the use of different cut-off values for 3D-PDA indices for discriminating between benign and malignant adnexal masses, depending on the sphere volume used. Use of VI is preferable due to its higher specificity.
Penile sensitivity had variable outcomes after circumcision. The poor outcome of circumcision considered by overall satisfaction rates suggests that when we circumcise men, these outcome data should be discussed during the informed consent process.
Extended duration of OCP pretreatment, as a first intention IVF protocol for PCO patients, does not improve the pattern of follicular growth nor the oocyte and embryo quality.
Active smoking was found to be a significant risk factor for early complications, reoperations, and donor-site complications. Patients with a normal BMI had fewer early complications, reoperations at 30 days, and complications on the breast area. As a significant number of complications occurred beyond the standard 30-day reporting period, it is important to consider reoperations during an extended period.
Pacemakers and ICD generators and leads functions were not affected by the tested standard 5 s stun gun shocks.
This study confirms that integrated care structures foster processes of integration among professionals.
One-way streets have higher rates of child pedestrian injuries than two-way streets in this community. Future risk factor and intervention studies should include the directionality of streets to further investigate its contribution to child pedestrian injuries.
This study suggests that SPT-positivity and atopic respiratory phenotype do not affect the formation of cavitation, radiological dissemination and systemic symptoms of pulmonary TB. The high level of IgE in patients with cavitary and radiologically disseminated TB may be a consequence of a dysregulated immune response to infection or reflect disease activity.
These results indicate that individuals with MS may not benefit from repetition in isolation, but rather require the use of more intensive cognitive rehabilitation strategies (i.e., increased organization) to help improve their depth of encoding of new information.
Our results indicate large differences in the impact of individual domains and symptoms on patient perceptions of well-being. Most cancer patients are likely to be less concerned about specific symptoms than the impact of those symptoms on their ability to function physically, socially, and in their daily roles.
There is no relationship between the simple balance tests and computerized platform tests. Muscle strength of the leg is not necessarily linked to balance, but rather to gait performance.
This study provides evidence that screening and very brief (5- to 10-minute) advice and counseling delivered by a physician or nurse practitioner as part of routine primary care significantly reduces alcohol consumption by high-risk drinkers.
OP and BPEP emphasized the highest surgical efficiency (prolonged postoperative recovery for OP), while TUVis displayed the lowest hemorrhagic risks. On the medium term, generally resembling functional outcomes were determined for the four techniques, with significantly decreased mean PSA values secondary to OP and BPEP.
Our results suggest that myocardial contracture plays a major role in posttransplantation diastolic abnormalities shown by cardiac allografts. Alleviation of contracture significantly improves the responsiveness of coronary smooth muscles but does not affect that of the vascular endothelium which needs to be handled by separate interventions.
These data indicate that most patients with AAA can safely undergo repair with no cardiac workup and that cardiac workup before AAA repair contributes little information that impacts on treatment or final clinical outcome. We conclude that cardiac testing in preparation for AAA repair is not usually necessary and that intraoperative hemodynamic management may be the most important variable in determining outcome.
These results suggest that fretting and corrosion damage is insensitive to differences in taper size. The final model derived explains almost half of the fretting corrosion damage observed and identifies contributing factors that are consistent with other in vitro and retrieval studies.
Residents free of restraints are less costly to care for than restrained residents. The 1987 federal requirements concerning restraint use, which are aimed at improving quality of care and quality of life, can be implemented without engendering a major increase in care costs.
Breast MRI alters the treatment planning for many patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer. Mastectomy rates are increased when MRI results alone direct surgical planning. Biopsy of MRI-identified lesions should be performed to avoid over-treatment.
Our study shows a mortality rate of 100%. We identify predictive factors and a prognosis that may aid in the treatment of these patients.
The questionnaire succeeded in highlighting problem areas on the ward so that changes could be implemented, including the introduction of a quiet time. Good practice was also highlighted allowing for praise within these areas.
We conclude that it is possible to create a truly indistinguishable sham condition (with appropriate acoustic masking as well), but more work is needed beyond these initial attempts.
Prophylactic fundoplication may not be necessary in neurologically impaired children undergoing gastrostomy for feeding purposes. It increases the postoperative morbidity compared to gastrostomy alone in this group of children. It should be offered selectively to children continuing to have reflux-related complications after gastrostomy. The technical difficulties with a pre-existing gastrostomy can be overcome in the hands of experienced laparoscopic surgeons.
Patients prefer the Soft-Sense alternate site testing device to their existing measuring method. The device accurately measures whole blood glucose.
Five PSI showed reasonable empirical properties to screen healthcare performance in Spanish hospitals, particularly in the largest ones.
Posterior localisation of reversible white matter lesions evoked a reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy. The implication of arterial hypertension caused by dysautonomia during GBS could be suspected.
Our preliminary results suggest that chorionic plate measurements may be suitable to predict placental surface area and neonatal birth weight in normal-term pregnancies. Further studies to verify prospectively these relations at various gestational ages and in cases of abnormal fetal growth are required.
The potential clinical usefulness of this concept should be further evaluated.
Our acute studies revealed no improvement in eustachian ventilatory tube function with the administration of nasal decongestants.
This study showed that oral Trimetazidine given before coronary bypass grafting did not provide any benefit in myocardial protection.
Of these three dimensions of nurse innovation, the level of innovation behaviour was perceived by the nurses as the highest. The study found that nurse innovation has no significant effects on customer perception of service quality and experience.
It is possible that there is a genetic link for AAOCA. Future research into this is warranted. Due to the potential risk of myocardial ischemia and sudden death associated with AAOCA, screening first-degree relatives for AAOCA using transthoracic echocardiography would be the prudent approach to potentially prevent a sudden catastrophic event.
The comfort score assessed immediately after the procedure is similar to that recorded at a later date, and it relates to the score assessed by the nursing staff. Younger patients reported higher immediate discomfort.
In patients undergoing elective valve replacement pre-operative HB<12 g/dL is a risk marker of in-hospital mortality and serious adverse outcomes.
TLR-4 protein expression is increased in interstitial trophoblasts of patients with preeclampsia. We propose that "danger signals" at the feto-maternal interface, which are recognized by trophoblasts through TLR-4, may play a key role in the creation of a local abnormal cytokine milieu. This suggests a novel mechanism that links the activation of the innate immune system through TLR-4 and preeclampsia.
Our findings lend cross-cultural generalizability to recent reports that gender does not interact with correlates for ADHD overall, but that it may play a role in subtypes.
These data indicate that only 4 health care professional groups met the Healthy People 2010 goal of 12% smoking prevalence. LPNs were the only group with quit ratios lower than the general population. The lack of significant decline in smoking rates among health professionals was similar to the "flat" rate seen among adults in the United States. This is of concern as smoking among health care professionals limits their interventions with smokers and their involvement in tobacco control.
The results of this analysis do not justify the use of VPA or LEV for reasons other than seizure control in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma outside clinical trials.
Triple therapies were safe and effective for H. pylori eradication in Japanese and Swedish peptic ulcer patients. Dual therapy was significantly less effective in the Japanese patients, half of whom had a history of GU and more abnormal histology than in the Swedish patients, all of whom had DU.
Although both viruses are related in many aspects, some biological and epidemiological features differ. This is reflected in the present results, as EBV is similarly detected in the groups negative and positive for HHV-8, favoring different mechanisms of spread.
The employed interventions had comparable positive effects on 12-month psychological and diabetes-related outcomes suggesting that even minimal intervention addressing patients' diabetes-related problems and concerns had favourable clinical implications and might be sufficient to treat subsyndromal depression. Further investigation is warranted to clarify possible mechanisms of improvement.
Pre-operative LCCRT and SCPRT are both associated with increased perineal wound complications after APER.
The results of this study suggest that general dentists can provide successful mandibular two-implant overdentures with minimal training.
Targeting patients known to be making a health care decision appears to promote the use of performance data. Patients particularly valued data concerning other patients' experiences and, after viewing the data, made choices well-aligned with their priorities.
Our experience of laparoscopic kidney donation for paediatric recipients suggests excellent outcome with no difference in rejection rate or graft survival compared to open donation. Laparoscopic donation is the optimal method of kidney procurement for paediatric recipients.
This study adds weight to the argument that class level expectations are important for student learning. Teacher moderators appear to relate to differing teacher beliefs and attributes (mediators) and hence may lead to variance in the instructional and socio-emotional climate of the classroom.
Both serum GPC-3 and GPC-3mRNA are promising diagnostic markers for early detection of HCC in Egyptian patients. RT- PCR proved to be more sensitive (100%) than ELISA (95%) in detecting glypican3.
Our findings suggest that rTMS by itself can potentially improve muscle weakness in functional neurological paresis disorder. Whereas patients' muscle strength increased as measured with dynamometry, patients did not report increased functioning of the affected hand, subjectively. The results may indicate that decreased muscle strength is not the core symptom and that rTMS should be added to behavioral approaches in functional neurological paresis.
A number of barriers to public sector clinicians and private psychiatrists collaborating in shared care arrangements were identified. The two groups surveyed identified similar barriers. Some of these can potentially be addressed by changes to service systems. Others require cultural shifts in both sectors. Improved communications including more opportunities for formal and informal meetings between people working in the two sectors would be likely to improve the understanding of the complementary sector's perspective and practice. Further changes would be expected to require careful work between the sectors on training, employment and practice protocols and initiatives, to allow better use of the existing services and resources.
Dutch policy makers and other healthcare professionals seem to have reasonably well articulated preferences: six of seven attributes were significant. Disease severity, budget impact, and cost-effectiveness were very important. The results are comparable to international studies, but reveal a larger set of important decision criteria.
The present study and a review of the literature shows that inv(16) is an uncommon aberration in t-AML and, like balanced translocations to chromosome bands 11q23 and 21q22 and the t(15;17), often is associated with prior chemotherapy with DNA topoisomerase II inhibitors. Breakpoints within the MYH11 gene may vary between t-AML and AML de novo.
Stringency of the approach to rate control, based on the comparison of the AFFIRM and RACE studies, was not associated with an important difference in clinical events.
Disease severity in placental abruption is likely to depend on the clinical presentation.
Although we find overall little evidence of gender bias in the clinical management of major depression, both male and female psychiatrists need to further explore sexual function and treatment preferences in female patients.
Hospital-based surveillance may be safely discontinued after three years for some patients. Laryngeal carcinoma may require further surveillance due to possible delayed recurrence of a second primary formation. Emphasis must be placed on patient education, accessibility to head and neck services, and the existence of a robust system to facilitate urgent referrals.
PF has very high concentrations of the proinflammatory cytokines, IL-6 and IL-8, after CPB but not the antiinflammatory cytokine IL-10. The PF may be a depot for the harmful inflammatory cytokines after CPB, and removing the PF could lower serum concentrations.
Simple patient reports of health status, which physicians can obtain easily from AMI patients shortly after an infarction, are predictive of rehospitalization.
The IVM protocol can be an alternative for infertile women with PCOS who wish to prevent the potential adverse effects of gonadotropin treatment. Prospective studies are needed to compare the outcomes of these two treatment protocols.
In clinical practice, we suggest that repeated knee goniometric and circumferential measurements should be recorded by the same physiotherapist in individual patients with TKA. Tester experience appears not to influence the degree of reliability.
Our study provides the first evidence for differential relations between episodic and semantic memory impairments and literacy skills in children with temporal lobe epilepsy. As such, it highlights the urgent need to consider semantic memory deficits in management of children with temporal lobe epilepsy and undertake further research into the nature of reading difficulties of children with semantic memory impairments.
In our preliminary study, the modified ventricular drainage device can produce satisfactory outcomes and relatively safe effects and may help some patients to avoid ventriculoperitoneal shunt placement.
Fat-suppressed T2-weighted spin-echo MR images were better than non-fat-suppressed images for evaluation of the upper part of the abdomen. These results suggest that fat suppression should be routinely used in T2-weighted MR imaging of the upper part of the abdomen.
If we applied the results of the adult trial to our PICU, we would have to treat 31% of the children with prophylactic erythropoietin and thereby expect a reduction of one red blood cell transfusion for every 17 treated patients.
Financial incentives increase reported learning time and examination results in the short-term. The lack of a sustained effect on performance suggests that financial incentives may foster a superficial or strategic rather than a deep approach to learning.
Even with large sample sizes, combining results from a previous randomized trial of B versus C with results from a new randomized trial of A versus B will not guarantee correct inference about A versus C. A three-arm trial of A, B, and C would protect against this problem and should be considered when the sequential trials are performed in the context of changing secular trends in important omitted variables such as therapy in cancer screening trials.
The more extensive lymph node dissections achieved better disease control for stage IA NSCLC. Greater retrieval of LNs did not imply enhanced innate immunity; nor did their immunity level affect survival.
The large and consistent association between mental health volume and performance suggests parallels with the medical and surgical literature. As with that previous literature, further work is needed to better understand the mechanisms underlying this association and the potential implications for using volume as a criterion in plan choice.
The elbow-extension test can be used as a sensitive clinical screening test for patients with acute elbow injuries.
The severity of hypothyroidism when first detected during follow-up is of concern and suggests that closer monitoring of thyroid function is required, particularly during the first 6 months post- RI therapy.
Intraoperative observation of ureteropelvic junction allows selecting cases to undergo nondismembered pyeloplasty techniques, achieving similar results to A-H pyeloplasty, reducing operating time, complication rate, and hospital stay.
Sports injury research requires accurate identification and classification of specific injuries and this study found an overall high level of agreement in coding according to OSICS-10. The fact that the majority of the disagreements occurred for the third OSICS character highlights the fact that increasing complexity and diagnostic specificity in injury coding can result in a loss of reliability and demands a high level of anatomical knowledge. Injury report form details need to reflect this level of complexity and data management teams need to include a broad range of expertise.
High t-PSA levels are very good indicators for the presence of PC. There is still concern for improving the differentiation between BPH and PC, when an intermediate or low value (<or = 95% specificity) is observed. The determination of Q is only useful in this range and is helpful for the clinician's decision whether to apply or avoid biopsy.
Young women were not found to have poorer prognosis, yet they presented with more ER negative tumors. Most of women presented with advanced stage and young women had higher recurrence rates.
Quantitative CTCA improves the prediction of functionally significant coronary lesions compared with visual CTCA assessment but remains insufficient. Functional assessment is still required in lesions of moderate stenosis to accurately detect impaired FFR.
GKRS for metastatic NSCLC had better local control, better survival, and a lower rate of CNS-related cause of death when given earlier in the day versus later in the day. These retrospective data should encourage future study in brain radiosurgery and non-CNS stereotactic body radiotherapy series.
Both the 'Pre-contemplative' and 'Contemplative' Stage of Change constructs were associated with poor self-rated oral health and oral health impairment after adjusting for some, but not all, covariates. When considered as a proxy marker of psychosocial health, Stage of Change constructs may have some relevance for subjective oral health.
Regardless of BMI category, patients required more knowledge about the risks of obesity in pregnancy, requested additional information and were motivated to lose weight before future pregnancies. Because obese women underestimated their optimal weight loss goals, it is necessary to target this group for further education.
These results are broadly consistent with people using the relative fullness of glasses to judge volume, and suggest both the shape and capacity of wine glasses may influence perceived volume. Perceptions that smaller glasses contain more than larger ones (despite containing the same volume), could slow drinking speed and overall consumption by serving standard portions in smaller glasses. This hypothesis awaits testing.
The relationship between medical emergency teams activities and the location of intervention shows the real diversity of the functioning of emergency medical service within a city and rural areas. Further research should aim to improve the generalisability of these findings.
A bifactor model of ADHD latent symptom structure is superior to existing factor models of ADHD. This finding is interpreted in relation to multi-component models of ADHD development, and clinical implications are discussed.
A model describing the pharmacokinetics of levofloxacin in critically ill patients was developed. It was determined that creatinine clearance has a significant role in the disposition of levofloxacin. This may have significant implications in the clinical setting for identifying optimal dosage regimens for ICU patients.
Detectable short H (2)S-stimuli are able to evoke alterations of breathing patterns which can be identified by computer. Respiration-olfactometry is suitable to objectify odor perception.
The present study revealed that postprandial itopride intake had no significant influence on the rate of gastric emptying. Recently, several studies have shown that itopride may be effective in the treatment of patients with functional dyspepsia. Our results suggest that the efficacy of itopride in patients with functional dyspepsia may be based on its effect of improving functions other than the rate of gastric emptying, such as the activities at neuronal sites, brain-gut correlation, visceral hypersensitivity, gastric accommodation and distension-induced adaptation.
LCA is a rare, primary vascular neoplasm of the spleen that might etiologically be associated with immune dysregulation. In addition, it shows a striking association with synchronous or prior malignancies. With about one-third of the reported cases to date being co-existent with malignancies of visceral organs or immune-mediated diseases, this advocates for close follow-ups in all patients diagnosed with LCA. To our knowledge, this report is the first one of LCA associated with previous pulmonary sarcoidosis and hypothesizes a TNF-α related pathogenesis of this splenic tumor.
We did not identify any significant association between MIC creep and vancomycin failure or between higher vancomycin MICs and agr group II. However, a higher mortality was seen in agr group II than agr group I.
In this single-centre nonrandomized cohort of FI patients, MAS was as effective as SNS in improving continence and quality of life, with similar morbidity. These results can now serve as a prelude to a randomized trial comparing the procedures.
This study provides preliminary evidence that art-therapy-based supervision for end-of-life care workers can reduce burnout by enhancing emotional awareness and regulation, fostering meaning-making, and promoting reflection on death.
Methadone offers HIV prevention potential, but there is a need to better model the effects of sexual HIV transmission in mediating the impact of OST among PWID in settings characterised by a combination of generalised and concentrated epidemics. We find that individual and community narratives of methadone as hope for recovery coexist with policy narratives positioning methadone primarily in relation to HIV prevention. Our analyses show the value of mixed methods approaches to investigating newly-introduced interventions.
Our work confirms that the use of alcohol and tobacco is associated with an earlier onset of colon pathology. Consideration should be given to modifying screening guidelines to include these habits as "high-risk" factors.
The size of the OPA seems to be characteristic for different types of glaucoma and directly dependent on intraocular pressure levels. Further investigation is indicated to clarify its diagnostic usefulness.
Routine ERCP is of marginal overall benefit, but is of more substantial benefit and is more cost-effective in a subgroup of patients with a greater probability of having an occult common duct stone.
This study offers direct evidence for initiation of a multilevel idiotypic cascade in a patient undergoing passive monoclonal antibody therapy for NHL. The patient's prolonged disease-free survival may, thus, be understood in the context of the generation of endogenous, self-perpetuating tumor-specific antibodies.
This referral refinement process can reduce numbers of false-positive referrals attending the hospital glaucoma service while retaining a relatively high level of examination quality.
Smartphone hearing test applications are providing alternative tests that present low-cost solutions. Using the hearing application test may decrease the demand for audiological services in underserved areas. The study suggests that smartphone hearing test results are comparable to pure-tone audiometry results.
Findings from this study indicate a need for continued education, development, and training to better prepare school food service purchasers in southern Illinois for how to buy more local foods to meet the 2020 legislation requiring schools to purchase at least 10% locally.
Povidone iodine 0.2% is as effective for RPIS as 1% silver nitrate.
Daily smoking patterns in Estonia fit the model of tobacco epidemic in developed countries. Educational differences in daily smoking highlight the importance of addressing smoking behaviour in the general population by educational subgroups in Estonia.
The M. pubococcygeus and the M. iliococcygeus share similarities with their homologues in the human. The M. levator ani, which is present only in the male rat, reveals some anatomical resemblance with the human M. puborectalis but has a different insertion and function. Because it does not lift the anus during contraction, its denomination as M. levator ani seems unjustified. Because of its principal sexual function, its fixation to the bulbus, and its sensitivity to testosterone, naming this muscle M. bulbocavernosus dorsalis would indeed seem more logical.
1) A left sided predominance of BC was seen in local population; 2) right sided BC had a more aggressive behavior with extensive and earlier appearance of BM at relatively younger age, smaller PTS and receptor (s) negativity.
In developing models analysts should consider the dual requirement of estimating expected NB and characterizing decision uncertainty. It is possible to develop models that meet these requirements within the constraints set by decision-makers.
Unnecessary IV fluoroquinolone use seems to be common in the VA system, but important variations exist between facilities. Antibiotic stewardship programs could focus on this patient safety issue as a "low-hanging fruit" to increase awareness of appropriate antibiotic use.
The three states' opting out of the small farm exemption may have had substantial direct effects. They may also reflect and/or encourage a generally more effective approach to occupational health and safety. Although alternative explanations must be considered, the stakes are high in terms of injury and loss of life; further investigation seems urgently indicated.
Our results show a statistically significant association between increasing LTS and worsening cartilage degenerative changes in the medial patella and the lateral tibial plateau. We speculate that increased LTS may result in increased femoral glide over the lateral tibial plateau with subsequent increased external rotation of the femur predisposing to patellofemoral articular changes. Future arthroscopic studies are needed to further confirm our findings.
Degenerative and tractional lamellar macular holes may be 2 distinct clinical entities. A revision of the current concept of lamellar macular holes is needed.
Temporary tightening of the lower eyelid with micropore tape to mimic the effect of lateral tarsal strip surgery can identify those patients who may benefit from an eyelid-tightening procedure. Patients who did not benefit from eyelid taping can avoid potentially unnecessary eyelid surgery.
Despite higher morbidity, prognosis after resection of gastric remnant cancer is similar to conventional gastric cancer.
Although substance use disorder preceded the onset of schizophrenic illness in the majority, and increase in substance abuse preceded schizophrenic exacerbation in one-third of dual-diagnosis patients, overall there was no evidence that the course of substance use was associated with that of schizophrenia after both disorders were diagnosed.
3D power Doppler sonography can provide new insights into placental pathophysiology. FI, which identifies the most severe cases of placental impairment, appears to be the most reliable index because of its low intraplacental variability. Further studies are needed to verify its accuracy when applied in clinical practice as a substitute for or an adjunct to umbilical artery Doppler studies.
Corridor surgery for atrial fibrillation is a transient or palliative treatment instead of a definitive therapy for drug refractory atrial fibrillation. This observation strongly affects patient selection for this intervention and constitutes a word of caution for other, nonpharmacologic interventions for drug refractory atrial fibrillation.
We conclude that a substantial proportion of children being followed for fibrous dysplasia of bone have unrecognized clinical and laboratory features of MAS. These children are at risk for endocrinopathy and should be screened accordingly.
Screened stables can be utilised as part of an integrated control program in the event of an AHSV outbreak in order to reduce vector-host contact and may also be applicable to protection of horses from Culicoides during transport.
Patients often present for MR arthrography of the elbow with medial or lateral elbow pain. Contrast leakage during a radiocapitellar approach may complicate evaluation of the lateral collateral ligament or the common extensor tendon origin. Transtriceps MR arthrography offers an alternative to the more commonly used radiocapitellar approach. With injected volumes not exceeding 8 cc, the risk of significant contrast leakage is small. An advantage of the transtriceps injection is that contrast leakage through the posterior needle tract does not interfere with evaluation of the lateral structures.
This study demonstrates that a daily dose of cetrorelix 0.2 mg is able to prevent premature LH surge.
Our data support the hypothesis that 'lifetime' manic-hypomanic mood dysregulations are correlated with psychotic spectrum features in borderline patients. The assessment of these spectrum features in borderline patients may be useful to inform treatment choices.
Relaxin's removal during the treatment may intervene in the pathogenesis of intradialytic hypertension. Hence, relaxin could be not only a new biomarker but also an active player in the intradialytic variations of blood pressure.
It is concluded that we could not say that if one or both of parents are atopic to any allergens, their child will be atopic to the same allergens. Besides, when a respiratory allergy occurs in siblings, only the one who has house dust mite allergy sensitivity can possess the similar antigen sensitivity.
More focus should be directed to the new types of errors and strategies have to be worked out to prevent them. Some of the errors that we draw attention to in this study can be prevented through e.g. better education of the users and improved user interfaces.
Objective scores and trainee self-ratings suggest that this structured curriculum using simulator training allows junior medical students to achieve proficiency in basic surgical skills.
Imaging modality, with the numbers evaluated, does not influence interobserver agreement of greater tuberosity fracture assessment, nor did it influence the recommendation for surgical treatment. However, surgeons did feel slightly more confident about their treatment recommendation when assessing CT images with radiographs compared with radiographs alone. Our results therefore suggest no additional value of CT scans for assessment of greater tuberosity fractures when displacement seems to be minimal on plain radiographs. CT scans could be helpful in borderline cases, or in case other fractures can be expected (eg, an occult surgical neck fracture).
The atherogenic potential of PI-associated dyslipidaemia may be attenuated in HIV-infected patients with decreased immune competence, reflecting a possible contribution of cell-mediated immune responses to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.
This pediatric study suggests that immunological changes may develop when more attention is given to hospitalized children.
There is heterogeneity in state-specific preterm delivery rates. Such differences are often overlooked when aggregate results are presented.
Spending more time with the women with a family history of breast cancer does not help to reduce anxiety scores and breast cancer worry scores except in the subset of women who were told that their risk of breast cancer was high.
These data confirm the thyroid inhibitory effect of sunitinib, in keeping with the key role of kinases in controlling thyroid function and growth. However, the novel appearance of TPOAb in a subgroup of patients with more severe hypothyroidism and longer survival indicates that sunitinib may also trigger/exacerbate thyroid autoimmunity contributing to thyroid failure. The development of TPOAb was associated with a longer PFS.
Our data confirm the usefulness of the abdominal corset in decreasing the degree of patient pain and it makes colonoscopy easier and quicker with less manipulation, so we propose using a fitted abdominal corset during routine colonoscopic procedures.
Stroke units and organized inpatient care reduce death or institutionalization with the same magnitude of effect across all age groups.
This large population-based study suggests that participants receiving an estradiol transdermal system have a significantly lower incidence of venous thromboembolism than do participants receiving oral estrogen-only hormone therapy.
Documenting total colonoscopy with static images of cecal landmarks is only partially successful as an objective measure of the extent of total colonoscopy.
Whole gut mannitol irrigation appears to be an effective, simple, inexpensive, well tolerated technique in the prevention of hepatic encephalopathy after variceal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis.
The incidence of RA in women appears to have increased during the period of time from 1995 to 2007. The reasons for this recent increase are unknown, but environmental factors may play a role. A corresponding increase in the prevalence of RA was also observed.
In Ohio, targeting S-BSPs by family income-based school-level criteria was effective in reaching higher risk children.
Vaginal resting pressure was significantly higher in the standing compared to the supine position. Neither maximal strength nor holding time was different when comparing the two positions. Measurement of vaginal squeeze pressure is easier to perform and standardize in the supine compared to the standing position, and seems to reflect pelvic floor muscle strength in the standing position.
Use of a checklist was feasible and helped to reduce problems with the laparoscopic equipment in the operating room. Future research should aim to implement checklists for different procedures and investigate their effects.
Our findings indicate that life situation and incontinence were not truly reflected by SF-36. A personal interview with a qualitative approach is likely to be a better tool.
Results suggest that IDA does not cause electrophysiological changes in the peripheral nerves, spinal cord and brainstem, and therefore, measurement of these parameters in IDA patients does not seem effective for the confirmation of RLS.
There was no overall mortality benefit despite increased health service contact associated with the intervention.
This study demonstrated no statistically significant difference in complication rate for patients 65 years or older. There was a significant decrease in mean sedation dosing with increased age and ASA score.
The simulation results indicate that for this particular case of a hepatocellular carcinoma late metastases, i.e., metastases from metastases, are irrelevant in terms of total tumour mass. Hence metastases seeded from metastases are clinically irrelevant in our model system. Only the first metastases seeded from the primary tumour contribute significantly to the tumour burden and thus cause the patient's death.
In this study, SNP could be performed safely in an outpatient setting, with pain the most frequent complication. Recurrences occurred in 4% of the patients.
PFNA II avoided lateral cortex impingement experienced with PFNA, providing fast and stable fixation of the unstable peritrochanteric fractures.
At least in the near future there will be no new Pareto optimal information systems available for patients in order to find the appropriate ophthalmologist. In the mid-term the situation could change if the open questions can be resolved.
Google Scholar tends to inflate the h-index. The m-quotient and hc-index allow comparisons of researchers across time. Although average journal IF did not differ significantly among neurosurgeons academic ranks, it should be noted for individuals who consistently publish in high-impact journals. We recommend the creation of individual bibliometric profiles to better compare the academic productivity of neurosurgeons.
Overall the high acceptability of this questionnaire suggests that this computerised format is an appropriate method of screening children for asthma and determining their current management. As a large component of underdiagnosis of asthma is lack of reporting to the doctor, this valid and acceptable diagnostic aid has the potential to improve detection of unreported asthma, and also to identify high-risk individuals.
The results emphasise the importance of a more in-depth study of discrimination in relation to socioeconomic health inequalities. Since ethnicity was a major confounder, it is recommended to take account of the complex interplay between discrimination and both the socioeconomic and ethnic background.
In patients at high risk for preterm labour, the presence of lactobacilli in the vagina does not seem to play a protective role.
These results in patients with CPA suggest that in patients with APA, concurrent autonomous unilateral cortisol hypersecretion could confound AVS accuracy by increasing cortisol levels (reducing A/C ratio) on the CPA side, while reducing levels (increasing A/C ratio and suggesting failed cannulation) on the CL side. Misclassification of PA subtype or repeat AVS could result, underscoring the importance of adequately assessing cortisol production prior to AVS and the need to consider alternatives.
This study depicts that coronary tortuosity is associated with impaired left ventricular relaxation.Thus, coronary tortuosity might be an indicator of impaired left ventricular relaxation.
Postoperative morbidity after neoadjuvant chemotherapy is more important in elderly patients. These data should be taken into account when considering the interest of preoperative treatment in elderly patients with resectable NSCLC.
In our study, we detected a decrease in CFR in patients with mild renal failure. We believe that in patients undergoing CABG for coronary artery disease, mild renal failure can produce adverse effects due to deterioration of the microvascular bed.
Extended segmentectomy should be considered as an alternative for patients with cT1N0M0 non-small cell lung cancer of 2 cm or smaller.
Early surgical results of emergency ARR combined with AAR were almost equal to those in elective surgery.
Administration of intravenous paracetamol does not result in hypothermia in normothermic neonates. In those with fever, maximal temperature reduction is achieved within 2 h following paracetamol administration.
There is no significant difference regarding DWI in patients with cirrhosis before and after contrast injection. Hence, it is reliable to run DWI after gadolinium either as an alternative for unsuccessful pre-contrast DWI or as a gap filler to spare time in EOB-Gadolinium-DTPA imaging.
Secretin stimulation did not add to MRCP in characterising pancreatic cystic lesions as SB-IPMN.
Chest X-rays performed at the bedside are the most widely used imaging method in the follow-up of critically ill patients. DE is approximately 84.5%. Radiologists should maintain familiarity with the interpretation of this examination.
Although multiple studies substantiate biologic mechanisms of acupuncture, there is not necessarily a fixed relationship between those mechanisms and people's experience of them. Rather, sociocultural context may interact with biologic mechanisms and mediate this experience. The theory proposed here explains why outcomes of acupuncture for back pain will potentially be more pronounced in the sociocultural context of China than in the West.
The Pedicularis species studied in the eastern Himalayan region did not conform with Grant's 'Pedicularis Model' of mechanical reproductive isolation. The specialized flowers of this diverse group of plants seem unlikely to have increased the potential for reproductive isolation or influenced rates of speciation. It is suggested instead that the extreme species richness of the Pedicularis clade was generated in other ways and that specialized flowers and substantial pollination accuracy evolved as a response to selection generated by the diversity of co-occurring congeners.
The strong correlation between the HIV-RT and HIV-1 RNA assays suggests that the HIV-RT assay can be an affordable alternative option for monitoring patients on antiretroviral therapy in resource-limited settings.
Laparoscopic PE is feasible with curative intent to selected patients. Potential postoperative advantages of laparoscopic approach when compared to classical approach, oncological safety of the procedure, and QOL considerations need to be further investigated.
Asthma with AR was associated with higher lung function and better values of resistance and reactance than asthma only.
Preeclampsia is a risk factor for cochlear damage and permanent hearing loss. Even if preeclampsia resolves after delivery, cochlear damage and permanent hearing loss remain unchanged in patients with preeclampsia.
Our results demonstrate healing and antibacterial effects of combined physical and herbal therapies, but no superiority of the combined treatment for venous leg ulcers as compared to treatment by herbal therapy alone.
In utero, exposure to tobacco smoking seems to have a small impact on outer hair cells. These effects seem to be equally true for all exposed newborns, regardless of the degree of exposure. Further studies are needed in order to establish a potential negative effect of maternal smoking on the neonate's hearing acuity.
The presence of a rural maternity care unit without surgical facilities can safely allow a high proportion of women to give birth closer to their communities. This study demonstrated a low level of perinatal risk. Most transfers were made for induction or augmentation of labor. Rural hospitals that do not have cesarean delivery capability but are part of an integrated perinatal system can safely offer obstetric services by using appropriate antepartum and intrapartum screening criteria for obstetric risk.
If we exclude the outlier from the ultrabrief group (seizure threshold [ST], 307 mC), we can observe that most of the patients in both groups had an ST between 30 and 40 mC. No patient in the brief pulse group showed a lower ST than 16 mC, probably because this was the first step of titration for this group. The data suggest that the difference between 0.3 and 0.5 ms may not be big, although randomized prospective studies with a more precise and similar steps used for titration are needed. Clinical efficacy was not compared in the present study.
Results showed no support for the suggestion that BCT might lead to greater improvement and better outcomes for female than male AUD patients on drinking or on relationship outcomes.
Clinical changes seen with neurorehabilitation were not associated with any detectable changes in fMRI observations.
Only margins free from tumor may guarantee an improvement in long-term outcome. Increasing resectability improves survival and could offer a chance of better 5-year survival.
This study demonstrated more severe meniscus degeneration after CR surgery compared with controls. However, progression of T(1ρ) values was not observed from 1 to 2 years after surgery. These results suggest that CR may prevent degenerative meniscus changes.
In a population of untreated women with mild gestational glucose intolerance and fasting OGTT < 95 mg/dL, we found an increasing risk of gHTN with a fasting glucose between 85 and 94 mg/dL.
No clinically relevant sex-based differences were found in the TnI peaks after cardiac surgery.
Low maternal body mass index is associated with increased prevalence of some pregnancy complications, notably preterm delivery and low birthweight, but overall the outcome is favourable and several adverse outcomes are less common in this group of women.
Basophils from AS persons are less reactive and include more nonresponders than basophils from NA and A persons, but do not differ regarding the FcepsilonRI molecule.
In a cohort of older HF residents receiving ACE inhibitors in nursing homes, we found that treatment with aspirin did not appear to affect outcomes negatively.
Pancreaticobiliary reflux is a common phenomenon in patients with gallstones and an uncommon phenomenon in patients with healthy gallbladders without gallstone disease.
It appears that disc displacement is less likely to be found in joints with a shallow articular eminence.
An ingestion of more than 6 cigarettes is considered a life-threatening intoxication for adult persons. In spite of the ingestion of 7 up to 20 cigarettes our patient never showed any symptoms of a severe or life-threatening nicotine intoxication. In the last decades no lethal nicotine intoxication after ingestion of cigarettes in adults was published in the literature.
Eighty percent of patients benefited from their hospital stay. Patient opinions on the merits of nonsurgical and surgical treatments in their own case were not correlated with their own outcomes. A tight straight leg-raising test angle was correlated with a poorer outcome. Neither sciatica duration nor rest duration prior to admission had an influence on outcome. Absence of complete bed rest prior to admission was correlated with a greater likelihood of a therapeutic benefit from the hospital stay.
Socio-economic difference in overweight/obesity prevalence lessened between 1995 and 2005. Despite annual variation, this apparent closing of the gap has been the result of an increase in overweight/obesity prevalence in children from the most deprived areas who, initially, had a lower prevalence compared with children from least deprived areas, but by 2005, had overtaken them.
The anterior construct plate - 1/3 tube buttress plate fixation provided a better stable construct for early sitting. The standing mode yielded more significant differences between the groups. Placing a 1/3 tube buttress-plate via an anterior approach is a novel method of providing quadrilateral area support in this setting.
OB-GYN physicians and residents were not consistent with their management, according to current guidelines, of cervical cytological abnormalities. The high-risk nature of the patients and their poor adherence to treatment (loss to follow-up) may have been the cause of this inconsistency. Meetings aimed at addressing the lack of compliance by local OB-GYN physicians with the guidelines for cervical cancer screening have been Better screening strategies are also needed if we are to improve patient compliance in our population.
The overall cancer detection rates showed no differences in both groups. But the 12-core biopsy was a more efficient method in men with a prostate volume of ≥ 40 mL, compared to the 10-core biopsy.
The prevalences of HIV, HBV and HCV in Saudi Arabia are among the lowest worldwide. However, all the important risk factors associated with transmitting these viruses are significantly present in the Saudi community. Saudi Arabia is financially capable of screening for these infections in the mandatory premarital program and of providing medical care for the discovered cases, but focusing on the health education programs may offset the need to mandatory testing.
A second pregnancy and delivery do not seem to have a major effect on bladder support and/or levator function. However, we documented a case of major levator trauma after VBAC. The issue of pelvic floor trauma after VBAC may have to be investigated further.
France will not run out of cardiothoracic surgeons. The inflow compensates for the outflow of surgeons liable to stop their activity in the next 10 years.
The Box-Cox power transformation can still be an effective tool for validating statistical inferences with large observational, cross-sectional, and hierarchical or repeated measure studies under the linear or the mixed model settings without prior knowledge of all the factors with potential structural effects.
Despite the presence of complications, SCS is still a safe technique, although careful patient selection and proper surgical technique can help to avoid major complications.
In women using OCPs and SJW simultaneously, it appears that SJW does not interfere with the antiandrogenic properties of OCPs.
In real life it seems to be difficult to reduce polypharmacy in the elderly. Some drug reductions may be achieved with tight control under trial conditions, but when the intervention ceases the number of drugs used soon returns to its earlier level.
The radiographic parameters were the same between the two groups. However, the clinical parameters demonstrated that IS instrumentation is a more effective management of thoracolumbar burst fractures.
Screening and follow-up costs were moderate and appear to be lower for combined screening of blood pressure and blood glucose than for separate screening. There was a strong relationship between resource use and NNS.
On the basis of this updated meta-analysis, coxibs appear to produce greater hypertension than either ns-NSAIDs or placebo. However, this response was heterogeneous, with markedly raised BP associated with rofecoxib and etoricoxib, whereas celecoxib, valdecoxib and lumiracoxib appeared to have little BP effect. The relationship of this increased risk of hypertension to subsequent adverse CV outcomes requires further investigation and prospective RCTs.
Awareness of the MR pattern described allows an effective selection of the patients who need genetic investigations for the GFAP gene. This MR pattern even led to identification of asymptomatic cases and should be regarded as highly characteristic of AOAD.
Myocardial uptake of (S)-[(11)C]ICI-OMe after i.v. injection was low, possibly due to rapid metabolism in other tissues. Injection of unlabelled ligand or beta-AR antagonists had little effect indicating that binding was mainly to non-specific myocardial sites, thus precluding the use of (S)-[(11)C]ICI-OMe to assess beta(1)-ARs with PET.
No statistical differences in overall complication rates were observed. The transperitoneal approach presented more serious complications during the early postoperative time and this fact is attributed to the potential chance of intraperitoneal peritonitis not observed with the extraperitoneal route.
Preoperative biliary stenting is associated with septic complications, but this does not affect postoperative recovery after pancreaticoduodenectomy.
Our results suggest that some small-for-gestational-age fetuses have decreased resistance at the level of the splenic artery. We postulate that the increased erythropoietin level, stimulated by hypoxia, results in decreased resistance at the level of the splenic artery in small-for-gestational-age fetuses. Finally, management of the small-for-gestational-age fetus may be aided by the study of the splenic artery waveforms.
The results suggest that illness perceptions play a role in the perpetuation of symptoms in somatoform disorders and predict higher future healthcare expenditure among a subgroup of these patients.
The topics covered by the questionnaire were considered important to both patients and their relatives. Information and counseling offered by the ET nurses and the colorectal surgeons were judged to be unsatisfactory, indicating the need for frequently assessing and improving general standards of quality of care.
The present study suggests insuitable nutrient intakes among patients with STGD and RP, especially for daily intake of vitamin A. The results may be used to provide tailored nutritional interventions in these patients.
Graduates bring a distinct quality to a course but many of these relate to a student's age. Older age at entry may be more important than having a prior degree.
HP infection is documented in more than 40% of both symptomatic and asymptomatic children. There is no association between RAP and HP.
Food advertisements targeted at children generally reflect the dietary pattern associated with an increased risk of obesity and dental caries in childhood; and cardiovascular disease, diabetes and cancers in adulthood.
The hotline strategy costs more than both the alternative PN strategies. If we accept that strategies which identify and treat partners the fastest are likely to be the most effective in reducing reinfection and onward transmission, then APT Hotline appears an effective PN strategy by treating the highest number of partners in the shortest duration. Whether the additional benefit is worth the additional cost cannot be determined in this preliminary analysis. These data will be useful for informing development of future randomised controlled trials of APT.
Our original scoring system makes it possible to predict not only the development of a wound infection and its severity after biliary tract surgery, but also the length of the postoperative hospital stay.
We conclude that palpability of melanoma is an inadequate guide to the presence or absence and degree of dermal invasion in melanomas less than 1 mm thick and cannot be used to determine the surgical margin.
A fall in intraoperative PTH value more than 50 % of baseline value seems to predict postoperative normocalcemia and the removal of all hyperfunctioning parathyroid tissue. Bilateral neck exploration is avoided in the majority of patients.
In early-phase oncology trials, patients' reported expectations of benefit differed according to how patients were queried and were associated with patient characteristics. These findings have implications for how informed consent is obtained and assessed.
Among immigrants in Los Angeles County, living in a neighbourhood with a high density of other immigrants attenuates the negative effects of acculturation on healthy eating behaviours. Healthy eating promotion efforts should build on this protective effect in outreach to acculturating immigrant communities.
Three-dimensional imaging is useful for predicting the risk of postoperative IAN impairment before surgical removal of impacted lower third molars. The low IAN impairment rate seen in this study-compared with similar selected study groups in the literature of the era before 3D imaging-indicates that the availability of 3D information is actually decreasing the risk for IAN impairment after lower third molar removal.
This study does not support the assumption that E + C should cause rises in blood pressure, acutely or during shortterm treatment, in either normotensive or hypertensive obese patients. The antihypertensive effect of the betablockers was not reversed by E + C.
Judgments of responsibility for controlling lung cancer and anger toward patients put caregivers at risk for dysfunctional helping behavior, particularly if patients had a history of tobacco use.
There was no evidence for a dominating role of steroid-resistant 'tropical glomerulopathies' in children with a NS in Ghana. Similar to South Africa, focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) and minimal change disease were the most frequent findings on histology. Contrary to Nigeria, membrano-proliferative glomerulonephritis was not found in these patients. We conclude from this data and from the literature that the histological pattern of NS may vary between different African countries. Concerning therapy of NS under tropical conditions, we emphasize that despite the limited therapeutic facilities half of these patients may benefit from corticosteroids; however, steroid resistance and FSGS resulted in a high mortality.
RA is capable of generating significant heat and potential TTD. Fluid flushing reduced heating and TTD. These findings warrant further studies in vivo, and may influence the design of atherectomy devices.
Study findings provided indirect evidence of difficulty in obtaining information regarding health systems at both municipal and departmental levels; this represents an important obstacle for health system management and evaluating performance, as well as for research and widening knowledge (and availability to such knowledge) in this area.
In Caucasian patients with symptoms of coronary disease, the presence of a corneal arcus below 60 years of age indicates a high risk for multivessel coronary atherosclerosis.
Individuals exposed to higher levels of air pollution had nearly threefold greater odds of developing ACOS. Minimizing exposure to high levels of air pollution may decrease the risk of ACOS.
Drainage fluid inspection can provide accurate diagnosis of PF formation, similar to D-AMY measurement, suggesting that routine D-AMY measurement is probably not necessary in every patient.
There are activities that plans can undertake which influence their HEDIS scores. On the face of it, these results suggest that plans can independently improve quality, in contrast to hypotheses that plans would be "too far" from patients to have an influence. Continued attention to collecting plan-level data is warranted. Further work should address other possible sources of variations in HEDIS scores, such as variability in the quality of plan administrative databases.
There has been a clear switch from hospital to community psychiatric care in Brazil, where the system can now provide a diversity of treatments and free access to psychotropics. However, the coverage of community services is precarious, and the reform was not accompanied by an increased public investment in mental health. The psychiatric reform is not a strategy for reducing costs; it necessarily implies increasing investments if countries decide to have a better care of those more disadvantaged.
This study highlights the lack of awareness of MOH. Improved education about MOH and informative packaging of analgesics, highlighting the risks in preferred lay terminology (i.e., painkiller-induced headache), may reduce this iatrogenic morbidity and warrants further evaluation.
The study investigated an assessment-instrument providing extensive insight into the nature, extent and routine practical implementation of PA promotion in preschools. The criteria used to evaluate preschool PA programmes are well-suited to identify the different preschool PA programme types and target areas in the field of PA promotion in which specific measures (teacher education, structured PA offerings, etc.) can be implemented in future interventions.
These results show that resting blood flow in the gastrointestinal tract is increased during exposure to high-altitude hypoxia, and that the vascular response of increased blood flow following food ingestion is maintained. Therefore, reduced flow is unlikely to cause gastrointestinal symptoms and reduced appetite at HA.
Since leptin was shown to be associated with alcohol craving, a possible vicious circle is suggested, including the components: alcohol intake, increase of TNF-alpha, enhanced leptin secretion, enhanced alcohol craving, and consecutively increased alcohol intake.
Our results indicate that routine histopathological examination of tonsils removed for benign disease in adults and children is clinically unnecessary. We propose that on an individual basis, the surgeon should decide the need for histological examination depending on preoperative risk factors and peroperative gross examination. Such a strategy will only be medicolegally possible where there are national and scientifically (evidence)based ENT consensus reports or guidelines on this issue.
Blood pressure is similarly associated with each of the four measures of overweight chosen, but the associations were stronger among Asians. WHR has advantages in terms of consistency of thresholds for hypertension across ethnic groups in the Asia-Pacific.
Preoperative allopurinol administration decreases the inflammation and myocardial injury according to biochemical markers of ischemia reperfusion injury. However, this biochemical success does not rebound to PFT (Tab. 5, Ref. 15).
Post-polypectomy calcium chemoprevention is unlikely to be a reasonable substitute for surveillance. It may be cost-effective in patients unwilling or unable to undergo surveillance.
Our findings support the observation that familial OCD could be phenotypically different from sporadic forms of OCD and therefore a putative subtype of OCD.
When presented with a case involving symptomatic leiomyomas, gynecologists' sex did not significantly affect their opinion for or against hysterectomy. Only age and practice type were independently significant in this decision making.
Asthma guidelines define the aim of treatment to minimise or abolish symptoms. We suggest that if the symptoms are not measured, they remain unrecognised. This is something that could and should be incorporated routinely into clinical practice because this is morbidity that is largely treatable.
Since we regard the visual assessment of LVWM as being more applicable for this protocol than the semiautomatic analysis, we conclude that low-dose dobutamine stress echocardiography seems to be a feasible method for detecting viable myocardium in the anaesthetised patient scheduled for elective CABG surgery. However, the semiautomatic analysis complemented our findings, since the variations in pre- and afterload did not significantly change the size of the left ventricle, which hereby would imply LVWM changes.
ARTIs are frequently treated with antibiotics and often with broader spectrum agents than pcV, which is the recommended first-line antibiotic in the Norwegian guidelines. GPs with a high practice activity are, in general, more liberal with respect to the prescription of antibiotics for ARTIs, and the higher the antibiotic prescription rate, the larger the share of non-pcV agents.
This method could maintain the correction of relapsed clubfoot in children and reduce the recurrence rate and complications regardless of the presence of a skin scar owing to previous surgery.
This retrospective study confirms that CEA provides long-term reduction in stroke risk and improved stroke-free survival rates in both men and women. However, women with previous neurologic symptoms and those using hormone replacement therapy appear to be at higher stroke risk at the time of surgery.
Longer survival time with spinal muscular atrophy type 1 is associated with early, noninvasive respiratory care interventions after diagnosis.
Short-segment transpedicular instrumentation of thoracolumbar burst fractures is associated with a high rate of failure that cannot be decreased by additional transpedicular intracorporeal grafting.
The use of a staff canteen is largely determined by the size of the workplace and by employee education. The underlying factor could be the availability of canteens, a question which must be confirmed in further studies, since well-planned mass catering at workplaces has major effects on public health, well-being and the nutrition education of employees.
Faculty and students tended to agree on the successful and unsuccessful residents, supporting the validity of rating scale evaluations. Future research might focus on how to tailor resident remediation when discordant ratings or comments occur.
Data on this comparison demonstrated that both ureteroscopy devices in pediatric population can be used safely in URS procedures. Neither the diameter nor the rigidity is significantly affecting the outcomes and success rates<or=8F caliber.
Our results demonstrate a lower mean SFT in osteoporotic compared with normal women, with a negative correlation between SFT and chronological and menopausal age in osteoporotics, but not in normal controls. A low skinfold thickness appears to be an indicator of developing osteoporosis and a high SFT may indicate a normal bone mass.
Particularly the women in both consultation groups demonstrated much less spread of pain after treatment, despite similar clinical findings and less anxiety about pain in group A. The initially wide spread of pain may thus have been a way of communicating with the doctors.
Compared with the adult AMI group, the elderly AMI group had a higher proportion of females, electrocardiography with NSTEMI and no chest-pain complaints, and a larger proportion of elderly patients with diabetes, ischemic heart disease, heart attacks at home and cardiac shock, which had longer hospital stays, and higher mortality rates.
When assuming the patient role, senior EMRs have preferences for ED care that are consistent with restrictive EMR moonlighting and NPC staffing policies.
Cystatin C and NGAL both appear to be useful biomarkers of renal injury. Studies with larger numbers are needed, however. Also, allopurinol does exhibit renoprotective effects against ischemic injury.
BSM is needed to provide a focal point for this large but dispersed literature. Those who prize the field of bsm covet the aspiration that the journal will serve as a beacon stimulating clinical interest and scientific progress in this area.
Liver fat quantification by MR methods strongly correlates with histopathology. Due to the wide availability and easier post-processing, gradient-echo sequences may represent the best imaging method for the detection and quantification of liver fat fraction in diabetic patients in the clinical practice.
It seems that if disclosure of medical error is made with compassion, in a timely manner, and with good communication skills both during and after the disclosure process, patients and their families are at least no more likely to seek legal action and some lawsuits may actually be avoided.
Cigarette smoking and passive smoking are not related to heart rate variability in adolescence.
Performed with aligners (Invisalign®), the resolvement of the partly severe anterior crowding was successfully accomplished. Resolving lower anterior crowding by protrusion of the anterior teeth (i.e., enlargement of the anterior arch length) seems well predictable. The initial ClinCheck® models provided high accuracy compared to the initial casts. The achieved tooth movement was in concordance with the predicted movement for all parameters, except for the overbite.
The use of NSAIDs following colon surgery significantly reduces postoperative opioid consumption.
In patients with severe non-proliferative and proliferative diabetic retinopathy, it is not possible to predict FAZ outline/size based solely on the measurements assessing volume and thickness or retinal structure evaluation on OCT. Consequently, at present OCT cannot replace FA in the detection of ischemic diabetic maculopathy.
24 common variants associated with adult adiposity did not affect or interact with birth weight among Danes suggesting that the effects of these variants predominantly arise in the post-natal life.
In this series, complications requiring immediate medical or surgical attention were rare, occurring in 1.6% of cases (five bowel perforations, two cases of hemodynamic instability without perforation). On-site surgeon presence may not be necessary at the time of radiologically guided reduction attempts provided that the attending physician is facile with percutaneous needle decompression and management of hemodynamic instability and that ultimate surgical care can be arranged expeditiously.
Reproducibility should not be relied upon to indicate a valid MIP test, especially for research purposes when relatively small changes in inspiratory muscle strength must be discriminated.
Among patients with CAD, frequency of concomitant PAD is associated with angiographic severity of coronary atherosclerosis. This association is demonstrated both in diabetic and in non-diabetic patients. Finally, PAD is significantly more frequent in diabetic patients, irrespective of the angiographic severity of CAD.
The c.-347-190G>A polymorphism and the somatic mutation of encoding region of C1GALT1C1 gene were not significantly related to the genetic susceptibility to IgAN in Northern Chinese population.
The introduction of a time target reduced the proportion of patients staying greater than 4 hours. More patients departed within 20 minutes of the target 4-hour interval after the mandate, notably, the elderly.
Physiotherapy intervention at the primary health care centre and respective homes of stroke survivors similarly improved clinical outcomes. Treatment at any of these locations may enhance access to physiotherapy after stroke in a low-income community like Nigeria.
The Food Dudes programme had no effect on changing children's fruit and vegetable consumption in the home environment. Further development of the programme could consider how parental and home environmental factors may be combined with the principles of the Food Dudes programme to influence children's fruit and vegetable consumption in this setting.
In the isolated rat thoracic aorta, endothelial NO release may be coupled to contractile stimulus. This vascular property appears to render a unique local control mechanism independent of baroreflex and other central mechanisms.
These results indicate that pentoxifylline affects favorably the patency of both aortocoronary and peripheral bypass grafts.
Having good nutrition knowledge or practice did not directly determine athletic performance. However, there is the need for nutrition education interventions, to improve athlete's performance by promoting adequate energy intake, lean muscle mass and appropriate weight gain in athletes.
Fundholders in Nottingham had not developed consistent approaches to managing demand within limited resources. Given the apparent diversity of attitudes and practices, the larger PCGs will require strong support to develop the intended commissioning function.
The national guidelines are based on a rate of discharge of about 24% of stroke patients to postacute care wards. In our study, we found that 47% were transferred to such wards. If the guidelines are applied, 19 beds dedicated to stroke patients would be necessary for postacute stroke care on a national level, or double that (36) on a regional level. Of these 36 beds, 16 to 24 should be PMR beds. The calculation of the number of beds necessary often rests on a simple transposition of the results of the studies and not on an objective evaluation according to the local context. Studies of longitudinal follow-up of cohorts such as this seem essential to evaluate needs and measure the relevance of the national guidelines.
The study indicates differences among countries in the evaluation of the single woman case. It also discloses the undervaluation of bioethics committees and the need for a greater participation of healthcare professionals in debates on assisted reproduction laws.
The involvement of sensitization as an explanation for the pain in chronic sports injuries is credible in a considerable proportion of patients. With respect to treatment, the establishment of such neuropathic pain mechanisms is of clinical significance.
Highly purified collagen coating causes significant changes in angiogenesis and in the immune reaction of metalloproteinase around mesh implants in rats. These findings can be useful for improving mesh biocompatibility for pelvic floor surgery if such effects could be properly controlled.
The benefit of additional acoustic information may be highly variable and individual to participants, but on average no statistically significant difference was seen.
An alternative risk assessment based on only a simple routine examination and a small number of pertinent questions may be more useful in the primary care setting. This model appears to perform well but needs to be tested in different populations.
We have found that DTC patients do not present particular sensitivity to ionising radiation when an in vitro treatment is performed in G0 stage of the cell cycle, but this result does not discard the hypothesis about an increased sensitivity in other stages of the cell cycle in DTC patients.
Rectal misoprostol is significantly less effective than oxytocin plus methylergometrine for the prevention of postpartum hemorrhage.
New informal taxonomic groupings are proposed based on the present findings. Floral evolution in the diverse Detarieae clade is characterized by a repeated tendency toward zygomorphy through the reduction of lateral petals and toward complete loss of petals.
Both the yield and the impact of blood culture results on the adjustment of empiric antibiotic treatment were very small. There was a high contamination rate. The recommended practice of performing blood cultures in all children admitted with CAP should be reviewed.
Our findings may in part reflect the molecular processes contributing to the safe profile of hormone therapy, tibolone and raloxifene in cervical carcinogenesis.
In middle-aged men and (postmenopausal) women, a higher 25OHD level was significantly associated with higher lean mass, muscle strength, and performance. These associations were most pronounced below 60 nmol/L and absent above 60 nmol/L, indicating a ceiling effect.
Morphine sulfate does appear effective in controlling pain associated with femoral sheath removal. The benefit of lidocaine infiltration during this procedure is questionable.
Urinary tract infections are an important risk factor for the onset of chronic rejection, and early and intense treatment is critical.
our findings suggest that lower grip strength is associated with reduced HRQoL in older men and women. This does not appear to be explained by age, size, physical activity or co-morbidity and may reflect the link between sarcopaenia and generalised frailty. Individuals with sarcopaenia may benefit from interventions to improve muscle mass and strength before the onset of chronic disorders usually associated with impaired HRQoL.
Stopping smoking does not appear to increase the risk of symptoms of depression and anxiety in those free from symptoms when they quit.
The standard multidrug therapy schemes continue being effective for leprosy cases; however, it is necessary to guarantee adherence and regularity. Surveillance to drug resistance in new and previously treated leprosy cases should be established.
This study identified gaps in knowledge, which may impair the ability of bystanders to act in OHCA. Most respondents expressed greater willingness to provide chest-compression-only CPR, but this was mediated by victim characteristics, skill confidence, and recognition of a cardiac arrest.
We recommend confirming the presence of the thyroid by ultrasonography of the neck first and then performing (99m)TcO(4)(-) scintigraphy. If neither the salivary gland nor the thyroid is visualized, screening for NIS mutations should be undertaken. This approach obviates the need to undertake measurement of the saliva/serum radioactive iodide ratio to diagnose ITD.
Intra- and/or postoperative photocoagulation should not be systematic but reserved for management of iatrogenic retinal breaks and also for extensive panretinal photocoagulation in recurrent vitreous hemorrhage.
Laparoscopic nephrectomy with vaginal extraction is a feasible technique in obese or overweight patients. Wound morbidity (infection, hernia) is reduced due to the small abdominal incisions.
In a group of patients with major and predominantly melancholic depression, differentiation according to gender was not important in treatment with common antidepressants. Women appeared to have higher plasma concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants than men. The consequences of this difference for clinical effects are unclear. Gender-specific recommendations for dosing of tricyclic antidepressants may be considered.
The results of this porcine model suggest that a second synchronous PPH is feasible. A controlled experience involving human subjects is required to determine the safety and usefulness of this technique in cases of metachronous application for recurrent or residual hemorrhoids.
Incidences of EAH in 100 km ultra-marathoners were lower compared with reports on marathoners. Body mass decreased, plasma volume increased, and plasma [Na+] was maintained. Since fluid intake was related neither to Δ plasma volume nor to Δ plasma [Na+], we assume that factors other than fluid intake maintained body fluid homeostasis.
In general, findings suggest that smartphones, social networking, and Facebook, in particular, are now being used by individuals who show risk factors for maltreatment. Further, the majority of parents surveyed in this study said that they like Facebook, and all parents surveyed said that they use Facebook and have a Facebook account. As well, all saw it as a potentially beneficial supplement for future parents enrolling in parenting programs.
Our survey uncovered a marked deficit of knowledge about TRALI suggesting that the low reported incidence of this complication may be in part due to a lack of awareness for TRALI. We conclude that training programmes for clinicians should alert them to the symptoms, diagnosis and treatment options of TRALI.
Our results suggest a delay in the normalization of CRP levels in females despite effective CPAP treatment. A time period of at least 6 months appeared to be required in women in order to reduce CRP levels and consequent cardiovascular risk. In contrast, CPAP's protective role in males is achieved at an earlier time point. Gender-related hormonal and genetic factors may influence the above CRP evolution pattern.
With respect to the low number of affected dentitions and teeth, MIH most likely did not exist or was at least rarely present in the investigated archaeological case series.
We conclude that more accurate application of the current recommendations would be advisable to decrease unnecessary testing and prevent avoidable health expenditure.
Integration of serial measurements of cervical length using a stepwise algorithm in asymptomatic women with twin gestations can improve the detection of women at risk of preterm birth. Prospective studies are needed to validate these findings, and to investigate whether improved risk assessment performance is sufficient to offset the additional costs associated with serial cervical length measurements.
Health declines before spousal death suggests some portion of the "widowhood effect" may be attributable to experiences that precede widowhood and interventions prior to bereavement might help preserve the health of the surviving spouse.
Women more often adhere to clinical recommendations for follow-up sessions comprising mammography. Patient age and whether biopsy complications occurred also seem to modify compliance. Further studies should assess whether superior compliance after vacuum-assisted breast biopsy persists in other settings, such as with stereotactic or ultrasound guidance, different numbers of cores, and procedures of various durations.
The supine or sitting position during the uptake phase for FDG-positron emission tomography/computed tomography has no effect on the amount and distribution of physiologic FDG activity in the muscles of the FOM.
Cardiovascular complications, including electrocardiographic changes, may be induced by anaphylactic mediators or by medications used for its treatment.
These data suggest that transplantation of cardiomyocytes might be an effective means of improving function of infarcted myocardium.
Distinct childhood traumas had different effects on the symptom dimensions, whereas most recent adult life events were associated with all three symptom dimensions. Our observations help to understand the often reported associations of these adversities with depressive and anxiety symptomatology. In addition, symptom dimensions of the tripartite model were shown to capture effects of adverse events on top of those captured by diagnostic categories.
For sinonasal neuroectodermal tumors no pathognomonic antigenic profiles are known. Immunohistochemical markers lack specificity and sensitivity. Nevertheless, in many sinonasal neuroectodermal tumors a panel of differentiation markers allows to specify the light-microscopic diagnosis. Until now no therapeutic consequence arises from a more extensive diagnostic workup. However, the histopathologic identification of subtypes (SNUC) and proliferation markers may help to identify patients with poor prognosis.
Platelet GABA-T reflects the time course of the increase in brain GABA better than does brain GABA-T after multiple doses of VGB in rats.
The new and unused burs were 100% sterile after high-pressure steam autoclaving, whereas 5% of the reused burs appeared positive with bacterial contamination. After low-pressure steam autoclaving, reused burs were 100% sterile, but 1 new bur demonstrated bacterial contamination.
Quizzing during the informed consent process can be problematic for a minority of participants. These problems may be associated with the setting in which research takes place and educational level. Further research is needed to develop, test and implement alternative methods of ensuring comprehension of informed consent.
Simple, low cost incentives can be used to improve adherence to TB preventive therapy in indigent adults.
Neither time to euthyroidism nor use of GPTs significantly affected height potential in our patients.
The authors conclude that there is no systematic bias against operating on high-risk coronary artery bypass graft patients in the risk-adjusted performance system in New York.
Emergency medicine physicians perform a very small percentage of all ultrasound and conventional x-ray examinations performed in emergency departments, with their share decreasing over the 8-year period. The fact that the participation of emergency medicine physicians in ultrasound imaging and conventional radiography in emergency departments is limited and has been decreasing makes their claim of substantial participation highly questionable.
Intestinal transplantation is indicated only in selected patients in whom long-term PN cannot be performed safely any more. In every child with intestinal insufficiency, the therapeutic strategy must be discussed early on in order to perform IT at the right time under optimal conditions. IT should evolve from being a "rescue" procedure to becoming a true therapeutic option.
We suggest two possible reasons for the difference between the weight of babies of twin and singleton mothers. Firstly, the growth of twins becomes retarded late in pregnancy, possibly after a period critical in determining long-term reproductive effects. Secondly, the twin survivors were of higher birthweight than the original twin cohort, whilst the singleton survivors were more representative of all singleton births, thus introducing a possible bias.
Our study suggests that the bladder may be preserved for up to 10 years in patients with tumors confined to the bladder (stage T2) who lack detectable p53 if they respond completely to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Patients with T3 bladder tumors or T2 p53 positive tumors are best treated currently with cystectomy.
Needle biopsy is the preferred method of diagnosis in most cases, but there are valid reasons why all breast cancers will not be diagnosed in this fashion.
RIP did not reduce the damage associated with elective PCI or cardiovascular events during the follow-up. The diabetic population who underwent RIP had more PCI-MI.
The pull technique is safe and well tolerated. The technique has significant advantages in selected patients without a history of recent peritonitis or exit site infection, in reducing risk to the patients, the pain of abdominal wall surgery and reduced usage of costly theatre time and in-patient beds.
Chest radiography performed after chest tube removal following cardiac surgery is necessary only if the patient has respiratory or hemodynamic changes or if there are problems with the technical aspect of chest tube removal. Following this guideline in our patient population could have eliminated 86.3% of radiographs without missing any clinically significant pneumothoraces.
These data suggest that the response to antibiotic therapy in patients with suspected SIBO is not predicted by carbohydrate SIBO testing results and bring into question the value of such testing.
QoL in children with psychiatric problems may be improved by reducing psychiatric symptoms in a number of children, but it is also possible to improve QoL without psychiatric symptom reduction. This implicates that QoL should become an important aim and treatment outcome measure of psychiatric treatment programs, especially since psychopathology tends to persist.
• Our results regarding the oxytocin receptor polymorphisms support previous studies that indicate a complex relationship between oxytocin and ejaculatory function. • Oxytocin receptor genes are, for example, unlikely suitable targets for pharmacogenetic intervention studies. • Rare variants in arginine vasopressin receptor genes may have significant effects on premature ejaculation, but would need larger sample sizes or case-control designs to be detected.
By using data descriptions by data source, researchers can make decisions about which population to use in their calculations of disease frequency.
Because of our statistic limitations and mix indications for circumcision in the study, we cannot conclude that circumcision might bring certain benefit on sexual satisfaction by itself but certainly does not bring deleterious effects and, when dissatisfaction is associated with local problems, some benefit could be expected.
These results suggest that laparoscopically assisted colectomy may be particularly indicated in elderly patients.
Multiplanar reconstruction appears to be a sensitive technique for the identification of tracheobronchial rupture because of its excellent negative likelihood ratio. In clinical practice, negative multiplanar reconstruction can exclude a diagnosis of tracheobronchial rupture, making bronchoscopy unnecessary. When multiplanar reconstruction is positive, tracheobronchial rupture should be confirmed by bronchoscopy.
The postoperative success rate cannot be predicted by the radiographic position along the ductus nasolacrimalis.
It is hypothesized that the reason for limited N2 fixation in aquatic Utricularia, despite the large potential capacity, is the high concentration of NH4-N (2·0-4·3 mg L(-1)) in the trap fluid. Resulting from fast turnover of organic detritus, it probably inhibits N2 fixation in most of the microorganisms present. Nitrogen fixation is not expected to contribute significantly to N nutrition of aquatic carnivorous plants under their typical growth conditions; however, on an annual basis the plant-microbe system can supply nitrogen in the order of hundreds of mg m(-2) into the nutrient-limited littoral zone, where it may thus represent an important N source.
Three years after NF, successful symptomatic and functional outcome was achieved in analyzed groups of patients with erosive esophagitis regardless of IEM subtype.
POSSUM is precise in predicting post-operative complications in patients with abdominal CD. POSSUM correlates with HBI.
The International Continence Society (ICS) incontinence definition presents intrinsic logical problems that invalidates its use in biomedical, if not in sociomedical, research. As definition and medical decision are different concepts, this does not necessarily affect the potential utility of the problem assessment aspect when used in everyday clinical practice as a basis for the decision whether to treat women with UI or not.
Our findings indicate that fluid-sensitive sequences are sufficient to detect acute and chronic lesions consistent with inflammatory sacroiliitis in children.
An image of a gun did not engage attention to a larger extent than images of other types of objects (i.e., a pocket watch or tomato). The results suggest that context may be an important determinant of WFE. The extent to which an object is threatening may depend on the larger context in which it is presented.
Very few patients were discharged to independent accommodations after 1 year. The main variables associated with a higher HD likelihood were: illness duration of<15 years and effective social support during the previous year. Lower severity of psychopathology and higher working skill levels were also associated with a significantly greater HD likelihood.
These results demonstrate that moderate AL resulted in a significantly lower GE during cycling exercise than SL. However, it might be that the lower GE at AL is caused by the lower absolute exercise intensity.
The current level of body fatness of the child and parental adiposity are more important predictors than dietary intake variables of risk of children becoming or remaining overweight as they grow.
The efficacy of fixed mini-dose warfarin for prophylaxis in pregnancies at risk for thromboembolic disease will require further investigation. This fetus did not appear vulnerable to coagulation abnormalities as a consequence of the warfarin regimen.
Asymptomatic patients with diffusely enlarged thymus glands can be followed up expectantly because they have a negligible incidence of significant thymic disease; symptomatic patients with diffusely enlarged thymus glands may have lymphoma, so biopsy is appropriate. Half of patients with a discrete mass have tumors requiring resection; imaging advances would be useful to better differentiate among patients within this group.
The hybrid approach involving hand-assisted left colon mobilization and robotic rectal dissection is a safe and feasible technique for minimally invasive low anterior resection. This approach can be considered an viable option for surgeons new to robotic rectal dissection.
It can be concluded that aerobic fitness and ability to perform repeated high-intensity actions may influence ITL responses in professional futsal players.
CCRT provides similar levels of local and distant control in patients with locally advanced tonsillar SCC as PORT, yet fails to show any superiority in preserving functions such as swallowing, saliva production, and mastication.
Administration of oral prednisolone did not increase the risk of laminitis.
Condition assignment did not bias recalled fruit and vegetable intakes among fourth graders.
Our results showed that [18F]FDG-PET/CT can detect new radioiodine-negative metastases in advanced DTC patients with unchanged positive WBS and increasing Tg levels. [(18)F]FDG-PET/CT may constitute a useful tool in the choice of the best therapeutic strategy in such difficult cases.
Our results showed that there were significant differences in the prothrombotic state when patients with paroxysmal, and persistent atrial fibrillation were compared to matched that there were significant differences in the prothrombotic state when patients with paroxysmal, and persistent atrial fibrillation were compared to matched patients with permanent atrial fibrillation and controls in sinus rhythm. The duration of the arrhythmia (about 3 years) was an independent predictor of abnormal measured factors. We found for the first time that some genetic alterations in haemostatic risk factors could be coexist in atrial fibrillation patients and may be a contributor to the development of hypercoagulability in atrial fibrillation patients.
These findings suggest that subjects with severe asthma, especially women, have an increased mortality from ischaemic heart disease. The results may reflect confounding, mainly smoking and physical inactivity. Other explanations may be side effects of the antiasthmatic drugs or an effect of longstanding airway obstruction.
Although the role of P-gp expression in the clearance of 99mTc-sestamibi remains unproven, we conclude that 99mTc-tetrofosmin is not as P-gp-avid as 99mTc-sestamibi. A role for P-gp expression in the clearance of 99mTc-sestamibi remains unproven. Higher doses of P-gp inhibitors will be required and clearance rates correlated with immunohistochemical expression of P-gp.
Statin exposure was not associated with GCA occurrence in the general population. However, exposure to statins up to 20 months may favor a quicker corticosteroid tapering. Based on those results, statin effect on GCA course should not be definitively ruled out.
Our study found a high prevalence (15.8%) of hemoglobinopathies amongst microcytic hypochromic anemia and antenatal cases. An accurate diagnosis helps in preventing unnecessary iron loading. Screening all antenatal cases with anemia helps in timely antenatal counseling, thus preventing the psychological trauma of bearing a transfusion dependent child for life.
In this European study, having a first or another pregnancy did not seem to be a risk factor for long-term progression of any microvascular complication. This is in accordance with the findings of the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT).
Our study demonstrated that a TB in combination with the KED on UPFs is an effective way to achieve early reduction. The addition of the TB in combination with the KED could be considered for Pre-Hospital Trauma Life Support (PHTLS) training protocols.
Extended chemoradiation therapy with additional chemotherapy cycles and 54 Gy of radiation may result in over 50% of sustained (>12 months) complete clinical response rates that may ultimately avoid radical rectal resection. Local failures occur more frequently during the initial 12 months of follow-up in up to 17% of cases, whereas late recurrences are less common but still possible, leading to 50% of patients who never required surgery. Strict follow-up may allow salvage therapy in the majority of these patients (see Video, Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/DCR/A113.).
This case suggests that resistance to TNF blockade may occur when TNFalpha is not the dominant inflammatory cytokine and suggests that LTalpha may have a pathogenic role in RA.
SLN detection by peritumoral injection, combined with the systematic removal of the internal mammary SLN, enabled the involvement of this region to be found in a nonnegligible number of patients. Such information should make it possible to personalize treatment for patients with stage cT1 mammary cancer and thereby avoid needless internal mammary radiation therapy in a large number of patients (93.4% in our study).
In the early postoperative period after the Fontan procedure, blood lactate concentration increased temporarily around the time of extubation but the increase was not associated with hemodynamic deterioration.
The PNM are very high in West Africa. The principal risk factors for PNM can be detected only during labor.
This study demonstrated that CD is prevalent among schoolchildren in Jordan. The seropositive children tend to have lower height, weight, and BMI than the seronegative group. These differences were significant only for boys. None of the participants is known to have CD prior to the study.
A semiquantitative approach is probably as good as the more elaborately calculated radioiodine dose for treatment of hyperthyroidism. It is clearly more cost effective and allows the use of predetermined standard doses.
EUS can complement ERCP to improve diagnosis of biliary complications after LT and help guide treatment strategies to address these complications.
There was a statistically significant difference in bacterial load on clean gloves versus sterile gloves (P<.001). However, when comparing the bacterial contamination on clean gloves with that required to cause an infection, it appeared that this statistically significant difference was clinically irrelevant.
Complement C3 depletion was found to be connected to poor prognosis in severe abdominal sepsis. This depletion seems to be associated with coagulopathy and aggravated infection during sepsis, which should be paid close attention in critical care.
Pediatric residents who were former CRs and/or fellows, and males were more likely to report professional leadership. Although men were more likely to report professional leadership, with more women entering pediatrics the reported gender differences will likely disappear over time.
These data suggest a unique, IkappaB(alpha)-independent pathway for the inhibition of NF-kappaB activation by acute alcohol in monocytes. Universal inhibition of NF-kappaB by acute alcohol via these various receptor systems suggests a target for the effects of alcohol in the NF-kappaB activation cascade that is downstream from IkappaB(alpha) degradation. Further, these results demonstrate that acute alcohol is a potent inhibitor of NF-kappaB activation by mediators of early (LPS) or late (IL-1, TNF(alpha)) stages of inflammation in monocytes.
This suggests that during cholestasis development, cardiac mitochondria lose their normal ability to control cytosolic calcium due to increased susceptibility to the MPT. Our results may suggest an explanation for the occurrence of cardiomyopathies associated with cholestatic disease, which may persist even in the absence of serum markers for liver disease.
Kidney transplantation in appropriately selected elderly recipients provides equivalent outcomes compared with those observed in younger patients. These observations support the notion that older recipients should not lose access to deceased donor kidney transplantation in the effort to achieve a perceived gain in social utility.
Uninsured patients with pelvic fractures get fewer diagnostic procedures compared with their insured counterparts; this disparity is much greater for more invasive and resource-intensive tests and is less apparent in level 1 trauma centers. Differences in care that patients receive after trauma may be 1 of the mechanisms that leads to insurance disparities in outcomes after trauma.
An ETV is an efficient procedure for controlling hydrocephalus associated with posterior fossa tumor. The authors confirm that a routine postoperative ETV is indicated for treating persistent hydrocephalus. For preventing it, however, they recommend early posterior fossa surgery whenever possible. The low rate of persistent hydrocephalus does not justify adopting routine preoperative ETVs.
Steroid therapy appears to be effective in patients with refractory late ARDS. Prospective trials are needed to define the indications, timing of intervention, dose and duration, and precautions of steroid therapy.
We conclude that there is no seasonal (or circannual) rhythm in cortisol levels to a degree which could interfere with effects resulting from other events. For testosterone, the circannual rhythm may account for 10% of the variation.
This study suggests that underlying MBs do not predict incident HTf after acute ischaemic stroke. The clinical significance of MBs should be differentially evaluated according to the type of disease (intracerebral haemorrhage vs. HTf).
Objectively assessed sleep patterns at the age of five are predictive of aspects of psychological functioning during adolescence.
Early exposure to common microbial contaminants, including fungal agents, might protect against asthma.
Spectrophotometric definitions of xanthochromia have only moderate to low specificity for SAH. Using spectrophotometry could increase angiography rates, thereby identifying more incidental aneurysms, increasing patient anxiety and exposing patients to unnecessary surgical or investigational complications without benefit.
Although the two CBT programs elicited similar therapy responses, patients receiving CBT alone showed higher adherence to therapy and lower drop-out rates.
Substantial differences in reported patient experience exist between ethnic groups. Our results suggest that patient experience among Bangladeshis and Pakistanis is improved where the practice offers a language that is concordant with the patient's ethnicity.
The results indicate non-intensive care unit nurses may have a greater need for interventions in the work situation.
Our study showed the diagnostic potential of using biopsy specimens for large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma, and we herein proposed more simplified diagnostic criteria for possible large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma in practical diagnostic use.
At our institution with early IMRT experience, IMRT improved PTV dose coverage and liver doses but not kidney doses. An external audit of IMRT plans showed that an experienced center can yield superior IMRT plans.
We conclude that the measurement of EBC pH may be useful in the evaluation of airway inflammation in children with asthma and CF.
In our study, AR was not linked with short ED-LOS. However, rapid administration of analgesia was associated with short ED-LOS.
Although female patients with SPNP outnumbered male patients with SPNP, there were no gender-specific trends in expression of sex hormone receptor protein or clinicopathologic characteristics.
Scanning patients before CE did not predict capsule retention. Retention is a complication of CE, but occurs as a result of the underlying disease. The risk of retention is increased in patients with motility disorders, suspected small bowel ulcers or malignancies.
Patients with ED have higher estimated probability of presenting segmental myocardial perfusion and functional contraction impairment and, therefore, CAD, independent of the aging factor. The authors conclude that ED may be considered not only a marker for CAD but also a condition related to the occurrence of major coronary events such as MI and PCTA.
These findings suggest that the CEB prompted individuals to discuss their continence problem and in fewer cases to seek professional help. Given these findings, distribution of a continence education package is advocated as a continence health promotion strategy.
Human breast milk is an appropriate source of nutrition for the growth of healthy full-term newborns, but is poor in vitamin D as demonstrated by the impaired bone mineralization in the breastfed infants without supplemental vitamin D. The results presented demonstrate that exclusively breastfed infants require at least 400 IU/day of supplemental vitamin D.
Making the Ottawa ankle rule more widely available to the general public is unlikely to reduce healthcare demand. Indeed, given the apparently low specificity of the rule, demand could actually increase as a result.
Combined RI better be used for the interpretation of cord blood glucose values in VD and CS newborns. Cord blood glucose concentrations of 2.24 mmol/l can be used as statistical estimates of cut off points for neonatal hypoglycemia in newborns irrespective of their mode of deliveries.
Brief and medium duration physical exercise influences the hGH, the total and free IGF-I concentrations. The free/total IGF-I ratio was also influenced and it might be related to the GH/IGF system. Its investigation might be a way of studying the training condition.
Variation in the CRC screening uptake in Southern England is principally explained by characteristics of individuals but contextual factors also have a small but significant effect. This effect is captured in greater detail by geodemographic segmentation than by IMD 2007. This information could be used to inform the design of interventions aiming to improve uptake.
This categorisation (i.e. low versus high IQ) adds clinically relevant knowledge to patients who, in spite of having similar symptom profile (i.e. high IQ schizophrenic patients and low IQ bipolar patients), fall into different diagnostic categories.
Waist measurement values for predicting health outcomes in elderly people aged 70 y and over are different compared with younger subjects, and have similar predictive accuracy compared with body mass index. Waist-hip ratio is not a useful predictor.
TUU during multi-organ resection for non-urothelial malignancy is safe and effective. Long-term renal function is maintained in the majority of patients.
Use of a prediction model based on high-risk variables for IAI may decrease cost and radiation exposure by reducing the number of abdominal CT scans in children being evaluated for blunt abdominal trauma.
For constant glandular dose, mass and microcalcification conspicuity remained approximately constant with decreased compression. Constant conspicuity implies that reduced compression would have a minimal effect on radiologists' performance, which suggests that there is justification for a measured reduction of breast compression for breast tomosynthesis, increasing the comfort of women undergoing the examination.
To the best of our knowledge this association has never been reported. Some clinical features are common between Triple X and Marfan disease so a careful follow-up is needed and investigations should be performed in these patients because Marfan syndrome may be incomplete in early age.
With an assumption of appropriate selection, removal of RA does not change the forearm blood supply and functions with little sensory disturbances in the early postoperative period.
Diagnoses based on uroflow pattern appearance without simultaneous electromyography to support them can be misleading, and reliance on uroflow pattern alone can lead to overdiagnoses of dysfunctional voiding and detrusor underactivity. When assessing patients with uroflow, an accompanying simultaneous pelvic floor electromyography is of utmost importance for improving diagnostic accuracy and thereby allowing for the most appropriate therapy.
The findings suggest that the beta rebound at Cz during foot motor imagery is a relatively stable and reproducible phenomenon detectable in single EEG trials.
Since cockroach sensitization was relatively frequent in Norwegian atopic families, albeit with unclear clinical implications, we suggest that cockroach allergy should be considered in atopic subjects with respiratory disease.
Based on the present study, 3-dimensional computer surgical simulation of the soft tissue of the face for routine orthognathic surgery is accurate enough for routine clinical use.
After arthroscopic supraspinatus tendon repair, image-guided PRP treatment on 2 occasions does not improve early tendon-bone healing or functional recovery.
In eligible UK school-age children, tonsillectomy can save up to 8 sore throats at a reasonable cost, if performed promptly. Further prospective data collection, accounting for baseline and per-trial preferences and choice, is urgently needed.
NIPD significantly decreased serum CRP and displayed a trend to decrease TNF-alpha and IL-6 serum concentrations compared with CAPD; whereas CCPD tended to reverse these effects. These results did not appear to be due to decreased local peritoneal inflammation, but they could be associated with better control of fluid overload on NIPD. Thus, NIPD, as Long as the residual renal function allows it, may be useful in reducing the systemic inflammation of patients with high peritoneal membrane permeability.
Arterial duplex ultrasound may assist evaluations of the need for and type of invasive vascular intervention in patients with an ischaemic diabetic foot. It can thus help avoid diagnostic angiographies that do not result in vascular intervention. However, such decision-making remains at the discretion of the vascular surgeon and radiologist.
Forty-two per cent of trauma craniotomies are performed within 4 hours. However, presentation to an ED with on-site neurosurgical services significantly facilitates time critical surgery in children following a traumatic brain injury.
The results suggest that visual perception in the VE differs from real-world perception and the performance of functional tasks (e.g., reaching while standing) can be changed in TBI patients, depending on the viewing angle. Accordingly, the viewing angle is a critical parameter that should be adjusted carefully to achieve maximal therapeutic effect during practice in the VE.
If curative resection can be performed, the long-term prognosis of patients with middle-third AGC was not affected by the length of PRM or the extent of gastric resection.
Data suggest that postero-superior displacement leads to poorer outcomes than undisplaced or displaced in other directions fractures treated conservatively.
Systematic differences in recall validity may exist and compromise the accuracy of intergroup comparisons.
Caution should be exercised when using proxies as a source of information about older patients' health perceptions. Questions asking about proxies' views yield suboptimal agreement with patient responses. However, proxy scales of UI and fall concern are internally consistent and may provide valid independent information.
Surgical revision can be offered to patients with a continent ileostomy complicated by delayed valve dysfunction with low morbidity and good functional outcome.
These results suggest that menopausal symptoms are useful for the effective identification of premenopausal women at higher risk of low BMD and perhaps, of osteoporosis.
Ultrasound measures of fetal size and growth used in this study are not sufficiently accurate to predict those infants likely to be at risk from the adverse effects of fetal hyperinsulinaemia.
These findings suggest that a first degree FH of CVD predicts prevalent cases of MetS in a mixed-ethnic population. Evidence of an association may help to identify individuals who should be targeted for screening and early prevention of type 2 diabetes and CVD.
A 30-sec COMFORT behavior scale observation increases the risk of underscoring pain. Therefore, the 2-min observation period should be adhered to in the interest of the patients.
The overall magnitude of the T-cell reactivity to nickel and the patch test reactivity are closely associated but fluctuations in the systemic T-cell reactivity cannot be singled out as the major cause of longitudinal variability in nickel patch test reactivity.
The high NPV and specificity of the clinical score makes the diagnosis of non-streptococcal pharyngitis very accurate. However, the PPV is low: a high Centor score (3 or 4 criteria) does not mean streptococcal pharyngitis with certainty. What approach to take with patients suspected of streptococcal pharyngitis is not yet resolved (microbiological test, early antibiotic, or postponed antibiotic).
The results of our non-randomized study show that up to now laparoscopic radical prostatectomy does not provide significant advantages in terms of peri-operative morbidity compared with the traditional retropubic approach.
Our results suggest a potential minor role for acetaldehyde in the glycine receptor-mediated effects of ethanol. Otherwise, acetaldehyde does not modulate function of the neuronal receptors tested in this study, in GIRK channels or DAT, when expressed recombinantly in Xenopus laevis oocytes.
Irrespective of the nature of a public health policy to encourage physical activity, targets need to be evidence-based, well-defined, measurable and encourage organisations to go beyond business as usual. RD physical activity targets do not adequately fulfill these criteria.
Breast reconstruction with DIEP flap is a safe and reliable method when used in Southeast Asian women, offering optimal results with less donor -site morbidity. Obesity increases the incidence of flap complication in this group of patients.
These results suggest that AmB is not a substrate of P-glycoprotein mediated efflux in this Caco-2 cell model. P-glycoprotein is not expected to be a major barrier to the oral absorption and disposition of AmB.
The level of reviewer agreement was only moderate. Reliable identification of relevant articles is an initial step in assessing published evidence. Advancement in quality improvement will depend on the theory- and consensus-based development and testing of a generalizable framework for identifying QII evaluations.
Regarding perception of procedure-related pain and technical problems in colonoscopy, patients with IBS do not show significant differences compared to patients without IBS.
Patients with "pure" CFS complain of unrefreshing sleep but only a minority have a clearly abnormal polysomnograph. The most common abnormality is of long periods spent awake after initial sleep onset. Although sleep abnormalities may play a role in the etiology of CFS, they seem to be unlikely to be an important cause of daytime fatigue in the majority of patients. However, pharmacological and behavioral methods that improve sleep quality may be an important component of a pragmatically based treatment package for patients who do have abnormal sleep.
The Diabetes Mellitus Status in Canada survey highlights the persistent treatment gap associated with the treatment of type 2 diabetes and the challenges faced by primary care physicians to gain glycemic control and global vascular protection in these patients. It also reveals a higher use of insulin therapy in primary care practices relative to previous surveys. Practical strategies aimed at more effectively managing type 2 diabetes patients are urgently needed.
Bladder augmentation does not negatively affect renal outcome in PUV patients undergoing transplantation. However, recurrent UTIs are more frequent in transplanted PUV patients with an AC than in those without AC, and they are generally related to non-compliance with CIC or the presence of VUR but, mostly, they will not result in impaired graft function.
Our study period included the time of the recession and several pricing policy measures may have affected the prices of medicines. Instead of the expected price convergence we observed a price divergence driven by price changes in only two of the 15 countries. All other European countries remained stable around the country average. Further research is needed to expand the study to a bigger sample size, and include prescribing data and Eastern European countries.
The MCQ and prediction equations proved inaccurate (excessive underestimation) in type 2 diabetic patients with hyperfiltration or normal renal function. With regard to CKD, the results obtained provided no evidence of superiority of the MCQ over the MDRD or the Cockcroft-Gault formula.
There is no clinically relevant difference in isotopic TRAb second generation assays--independent of the TSH-R used. Both TSH-R assays showed nearly similar TRAb results in consecutive samples as well as in serum samples from patients with Graves' disease.
Persistent AF does not affect plasma ET-1 concentration in patients with normal left ventricle systolic function and with no symptoms of heart failure. There are no significant changes in plasma ET-1 level during the 24 hours after cardioversion.
The delivery process is unpredictable and potentially risky. Thirty-seven percent of patients classified as low risk at the beginning of labour have required intervention of the obstetrician and 21% of them his intervention.
: The very low frequency of neoplasia in cervical polyps of asymptomatic patients seems to support the notion that there is no clear indication for polypectomy when cytology is normal.
Attempt to use the right colon as an esophageal substitute failed in 18% of the patients. Despite high rates of cervical complications, in part linked to the peculiar setting of caustic injury, functional results remains satisfactory.
Patients with acute esophageal coin ingestions may experience spontaneous coin passage and therefore, patients with coins located below the thoracic inlet with minor symptoms may be candidates for next-day follow-up. If repeat radiographs reveal a persistent esophageal coin, then the coin should be immediately removed. Furthermore, asymptomatic patients with coins above the thoracic inlet should undergo repeat radiographs in 2-5 h, as spontaneous coin passage may occur. Our protocol may also be more convenient and cost-effective as patients can be observed at home.
As in animal studies, depression during pregnancy may affect infant development in a way that is related to gender. Early gender differences observed to be associated with depression, stress, and anxiety during pregnancy may be a key to understanding the higher prevalence in males of child psychiatric disorders.
Factors associated with fungemia were catheter use, invasive procedures and total parenteral nutrition, suggesting that the acquisition of P. anomala was exogenous.
In lactating women whose caloric needs are being met: 1) dietary CHO intake, within a practical range, does not influence LA levels in breast milk at rest or after exercise; 2) LA appearance in the milk is a function of exercise intensity; and 3) moderate intensity exercise (RPE = 12) will not increase breast milk LA levels.
The criteria for synergism were not fulfilled when the effect of penicillin-gentamicin combinations was compared with that of penicillin monotherapy. Rapid killing of GBS within the first few hours was observed in time-kill assays with human blood products. Considering that elderly people are prone to gentamicin nephrotoxicity and that in severe GBS infection a high penicillin dose is administered every 4-6 h, the prolonged use of adjunctive aminoglycosides in these infections requires caution.
The posterior limb of the medial canthal tendon was not detected in any of the specimens. This anatomic structure seems to be a part of the Horner muscle.
Although we found a statistically significant difference between patients with and without thrombosis in respect to MTHFR C677T gene mutation, our data suggest that we do not have enough evidence yet to recommend performing genetic analysis.
This retrospective study suggests that preservation of the aortic valve in acute type A aortic dissection is feasible in non-Marfan patients regardless of the degree of AR. In chronic dissection, aortic root replacement needs to be considered when the degree of AR is greater than moderate because of a dilated STJ and/or annulus. In both acute and chronic dissections, satisfactory mid- to long-term results with a low incidence of reoperation were obtained in those whose aortic valve was preserved.
Most collecting duct carcinomas are already metastatic at presentation. Because the prognosis is dismal despite radical nephrectomy, biopsy should be performed first when radiological findings are suggestive of collecting duct carcinoma. For metastatic collecting duct carcinoma radical nephrectomy alone does not seem to be useful except for palliative reasons or in the framework of new multicentric chemotherapy protocols in progress.
The mean computed tomographic density and distribution range of infective pancreatic necrosis could significantly influence the success rate of PCD; higher values of them indicate less appropriate for PCD; thus, it should be considered seriously before the treatment decision.
The current informed consent process in use in the surgical training program at the University Hospital of the West Indies requires improvement to meet expected ethical and legal standards.
Patients with ulcerative colitis and concomitant PSC seem to constitute a subgroup with a high risk for colorectal cancer.
We found that including the postoperative radiation boost after preoperative radiation and a margin-positive excision did not provide an advantage in preventing LR for patients treated with external beam radiotherapy. Given that higher radiation doses placed patients at greater risk for late complications such as fracture, fibrosis, edema, and joint stiffness, judicious avoidance of the postoperative boost while maintaining an equivalent rate of local control can reduce the risk of these difficult-to-treat morbidities.
We provide the first study of post-anesthetic protein expression profiles associated with three common volatile anesthetics. These volatile anesthetics promote a distinct change in the myocardial protein expression profile, whereby changes in the expression pattern still exist 72 h after anesthesia. These proteome changes are closely related to cardioprotection and ischemic preconditioning, indicating a common functional signaling of volatile anesthestics.
The use of VCD to achieve hemostasis after endovascular studies in swine is feasible and safe.
A substantial portion of the education differential in smoking that has been repeatedly observed is attributable to factors shared by siblings that contribute to shortened educational careers and to lifetime smoking trajectories. Reducing disparities in cigarette smoking, including educational disparities, may therefore require approaches that focus on factors early in life that influence smoking risk over the adult life span.
Reformulating PHVOs to reduce trans fat in India is feasible; however, a collision course exists where the public health goal to replace PHVOs with PUFA are opposed to the goals of industry to produce a cheap alternative product that meets consumer preferences. Ensuring that product reformulation is done in a way that maximises health benefits will require shifts in knowledge and subsequent demand of products, decreased reliance on palm oil, investment in research and development and increased capacity for smaller manufacturers.
This study confirmed the specific features of critically ill A(H1N1) patients (i.e., young age, pregnancy, obesity). The pandemic did not increase ICU workload compared with other periods. A(H1N1) pneumonia did not have a higher risk of death than CAP of different origin among patients admitted to the ICU.
The individualized birth weight reference modestly outperforms the simple ultrasound-based reference in identifying SGA infants with poor child neurodevelopment. However, neither reference can predict child neurodevelopment well.
This study highlights the high prevalence of CVD risk factors, particularly in younger prisoners, when compared with the Australian non-prison population.
Even in patients with clinically high probability of acute appendicitis, diagnostic imaging should be performed because it accurately depicts a high percentage of normal appendices and differential diagnoses.
TOC pathways recommend subsequent follow-up in primary care. This study identified no safety issues with TOC pathways. We can no longer assess histological failure rates at 12 months; we, therefore, recommend that this measure of treatment failure be redefined for post TOC women. It seems time to question the benefits of routine excision margins reporting, in the absence of invasion, for treated CIN. Future reporting needs to be reconsidered by the Royal College of Pathologists.
Isolated eardrum perforation in survivors of explosions does not appear to be a marker of concealed pulmonary blast injury nor of a poor prognosis. Therefore, in a mass casualty event, persons who have sustained isolated eardrum perforation from explosions may safely be discharged from the emergency department after chest radiography and a brief observation period.
The section of the tensor tympani muscle tendon in canal wall-down tympanoplasty with ossiculoplasty had no statistically significant influence on sound transmission and can be a safe maneuver in middle ear surgery.
The results indicate that there is an association between household structure and smoking among adolescents in Canada. Findings might be helpful for decision makers to recognize the context within which adolescents initiate and sustain smoking when developing strategies for the prevention and cessation of smoking among youth.
Weight and BMI are positively related to premenopausal ovarian cancer risk in this population-based case-control study. This association is particularly noted for serous borderline tumors. This may suggest the importance of endocrine factors, which are altered in overweight women, such as insulin or androgens.
In the majority of ED cases of suspected VTE, PTP assessment was not documented and approximately one-quarter of these documented decisions were in discordance with established recommendations for the given test results. This suggests that PTP assessments are not being conducted in a significant proportion of cases and the diagnostic test results are misinterpreted, applied incorrectly or both.
Primary biliary cirrhosis-specific autoantibodies were detected in 15% of the systemic sclerosis patients. Since patients with primary biliary cirrhosis-specific antibodies are at high-risk or do suffer from primary biliary cirrhosis, screening for primary biliary cirrhosis-specific autoantibodies may be considered during routine assessment of systemic sclerosis.
When properly selected, this technique leads to good results. A proper LL should be achieved after any hybrid stabilization to preserve the segment above the fusion.
Overall, few differences were found between language groups, though variations in self-rated mental health indices were observed. In order to better understand the role of context in determining health outcomes, future research should examine mental health problems among official language minority groups provincially to help stakeholders in directing resources and programs to populations in most need.
Patients with CSM showed a high incidence of preoperative developmental canal stenosis. However, there were no significant differences in clinical results between patients with and without this disorder. These results indicate that developmental canal stenosis is not a factor that influences surgical results.
Children are at higher risk for medically attended injury when their parents are unmarried. Having grandparents as caregivers seems to be protective. Household composition seems to play a key role in placing children at risk for medically attended injuries.
The impact of viscosity on sweetness and taste perception was much smaller in the concentrations used than has been generally reported. The effect of the type of hydrocolloid on the perception of taste attributes was greater than that of viscosity.
Nafamostat mesilate prophylaxis (20 or 50 mg) is effective in preventing post-ERCP pancreatitis. However, the preventive effect of high-dose nafamostat mesilate (50 mg) is not significant in high-risk patients.
In our study sample of patients with mild TBI, there is no difference in outcome of patients with isolated SAH compared with those with normal CT scans 1 year after injury.
Although the use of the nerve stimulator seems desirable, it confers no added advantage in finding the nerve. In the event of uncertainty about whether a structure is the nerve, the stimulator may help to confirm it. However, exposure of the cricothyroid space is most important for good exposure in searching for the external laryngeal nerve.
The finding of organ-specific autoantibodies in coeliac patients discloses the coexistence of a wide spectrum of immunological diseases.
The least fit recruits may have found training more physically demanding as reflected in the higher URTS duration, which may have led to a high attrition rate from the Army. It is worth considering that baseline aerobic fitness might be an important factor in illness development and attrition rate in recruits during this type of military training.
The results of this study suggest that Internet support does not appear to be as effective as minimal or frequent intensive in-person therapist support for facilitating the long-term maintenance of weight loss.
Laparoscopic sonography can represent an adequate substitute for CGP as a screening procedure during LC.
Endothelial dysfunction is present in newly diagnosed RA patients, independently of traditional risk factors and is inversely correlated with disease activity. By reducing disease activity, endothelial dysfunction improves, although not to normal values. Also, a reduction in disease activity targeting traditional risk factors remains important in preventing CVD in RA.
These case reports suggest that patients with TTP should be screened to rule out cancer. In patients with acute cancer-related complications emergency surgery should aim to resect the cancer. An associated splenectomy may increase the effectiveness of postoperative hematologic therapy.
The addition of débridement of the posterior synovial fold did not appear to enhance either pain relief or function compared with the classic Baker technique without decortication.
Primary health care facilities had inadequate human and infrastructural capacity to effectively implement universal parasite-based malaria diagnosis. The priority capacity building needs identified were: 1) recruitment and retention of qualified staff, 2) comprehensive training of health workers in fever management, 3) malaria diagnosis quality control systems and 4) strengthening of supply chain, stock management and referral systems.
Percutaneous nephrolithotomy is effective and safe in patients who have previously had open nephrolithotomy with no more complications than are seen with PCNL of kidneys that have not been operated on.
Radical segmentectomy, with extensive hilar/mediastinal lymph node dissection and a sufficient surgical margin, may play a role in local control in patients with cT1 N0 M0/pN1-2 NSCLC.
Our analysis shows an association between past occupational low back injury and increasing severity of prevalent low back pain, but not depression. These results suggest that past work-related low back injury may be an important risk factor for future episodes of low back pain and disability in the general population.
This study suggests that in the Netherlands immunisation of elderly patients with chronic lung disease against influenza is effective and cost-saving, hence these patients should be given high priority. More, preferably experimental, studies are needed to establish whether adult lung patients under 65 years in the community will also benefit from vaccination.
The result of this study indicates that the overweight and obesity epidemic among Swedish pre-school children may be levelling off.
Patients without any obstetric risks, with two or more previous caesarean sections had significantly more dense adhesions and uterine wound separations in the current caesarean section compared to patients with one previous caesarean section. But, maternal and fetal mortality and morbidity in women who have two or more previous caesarean sections did not differ from the patients with one previous caesarean section.
Irradiation with moderate levels of 670-nm light and EGCG supplementation complementarily reduces Aβ aggregates in SH-EP cells. Transcranial penetration of moderate levels of red to near-infrared (NIR) light has already been amply exploited in the treatment of patients with acute stroke; the blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration of EGCG has been demonstrated in animals. We hope that our approach will inspire a practical therapy for AD.
In our experience MRI did not produce any additional benefit for detecting a bleeding source after SAH with a negative angiogram. The costs of this examination exceeded the clinical value. Despite our results MRI should be discussed on a case-by-case basis because rare bleeding sources are periodically diagnosed in cases of NON-PM-SAH.
Robotic training in general surgery residency does not amount to extra OR time. LOS in our study was significantly longer in the standard laparoscopic group.
The addition of distal median, radial, and ulnar nerve blocks to SCB shortens anesthesia-related time and anesthesia onset time when compared with a SCB alone.
Pulmonary arterial venting may be used as an alternative to aortic root venting during on-pump coronary bypass surgery, especially in patients at high risk of postoperative atrial fibrillation.
The use of unenhanced CT scan in addition to contrast-enhanced CT scan does not improve the detection of adnexal malignancy, but increases radiation exposure.
The antenatal prediction of fetal macrosomia is associated with a marked increase in cesarean deliveries without a significant reduction in the incidence of shoulder dystocia or fetal injury. Ultrasonography and labor induction for patients at risk for fetal macrosomia should be discouraged.
Patients with advanced NSCLC who were treated inside of a clinical trial had better OS compared to those who were treated outside of it.
Chronic ethanol intake induces ductal alterations in the parotid gland similar to those seen in the pancreas. These results suggest a common histopathological effect of alcohol in the ductal system of the parotid gland and pancreas and raise the possibility that the parotid sialogram could be useful as an adjunct in the diagnosis of ethanol-induced chronic pancreatitis.
Our study is characterised by strict and extensive patient selection criteria for renal artery sympathetic denervation (RASD), which seem to warrant a positive effect of the procedure on BP, arterial stiffness and left ventricular mass 6 months after RASD, although it should be confirmed in larger controlled trials.
We did not find evidence of deleterious effect of laser drilling and first polar body biopsy on in vitro matured oocytes, according to our criteria.
Professional treatment programs that emphasize self-help approaches increase their patients' reliance on cost-free self-help groups and thereby lower subsequent health care costs. Such programs therefore represent a cost-effective approach to promoting recovery from substance abuse.
The novel AIV H7N9 might have reassorted its PB1 segment from H9N2 circulating in China, and this H9N2 PB1 might have been recombined into a highly pathogenic fragment from HPAIV H5N1, which could be the reason for the high fatality rate among patients with AIV H7N9 influenza.
Cardiovascular specialists may place considerable weight on age and work status in determining urgency and appropriateness of coronary revascularization. Risk-benefit concerns may partly explain shifting thresholds for intervention, but not differential waiting times. The influence of these factors should be sought in utilization audits and addressed from an ethical perspective.
The PPV of high-resolution cervical US for identifying an abnormal parathyroid gland was 100% in this series. It was 80% for predicting intrathyroid localization of the adenoma. This method allows us to shorten the operating time by guiding the exploration immediately toward the thyroid gland.
Comparing patients with advanced cancer, CHF, and COPD, illness experience was more similar than different. Patients living with life-limiting illnesses other than cancer may benefit from whole-person services often extended to cancer patients.
The raw foods vegan diet and possibly inherited small stature from the father's side account for their relatively low heights and weights. Catch-up growth will probably occur on the standard American diet but would have also been expected if they had remained on a vegan diet.
HD is a common occurrence after CAS, especially in patients with both long and calcified plaque. Only a tailored procedure with a correct remodelling of the plaque allows to avoid both HD and elastic recoil of the target lesion.
To maximize the sensitivity and minimize the false-positive rate of the glucose-loading test, it may be reasonable to consider varying the threshold based on ethnicity. However, modification of glucose-loading test thresholds based on maternal ethnicity merit further study to determine whether improved perinatal outcomes can be achieved.
Smoking prevalence and rates of physical inactivity are considerably high in Greek health science students. Smoking was strongly and inversely associated with PA in this sample of Greek young adults.
The lower limit of normal for serum testosterone was 3-4 nmol/L (0.86-1.15 microg/L) lower than that of published ranges. The results have important implications for the diagnosis of hypogonadism and use of testosterone replacement therapy.
Delayed-time-point imaging may improve F-FDG-PET in MALT lymphoma.
Whereas one smartphone camera ranked best more often, all three smartphones obtained results at least as good as those of the digital camera. Smartphone cameras can be a substitute for digital cameras for the purposes of medical teleconsulation.
The limitations of the international definitions, due to averaging data from different countries and the choice of reference age, need to be known. The UK cut-off points here presented are compatible with the current UK reference curves.
Design enhancements could markedly improve average website users' understanding, ability to use, and experience of using the MPF.
Although preliminary, the Brief-BESTest demonstrated reliability comparable to that of the Mini-BESTest and potentially superior sensitivity while requiring half the items of the Mini-BESTest and representing all theoretically based sections of the original BESTest.
These results provide preliminary evidence that CBT after ECT is feasible and may extend the antidepressant effects ofECT.
In the largest analysis to date, we could not detect a meaningful difference in peripartum VTE incidence between women with and without sickle cell trait.
Omegaven improves the detrimental effects of ovarian I/R when used in sufficient doses. Its effects and dose adjustment on women with ovarian torsion must be investigated by further studies.
HS RBCs may lose membrane under optimum storage conditions, becoming unsuitable for transfusion at surgery. Intraoperative autologous transfusion may be preferable to preoperative deposit for avoidance of allogeneic RBC transfusion in patients with HS.
CSM and BIS show some important differences in measuring hypnotic state during clinical propofol/remifentanil anaesthesia.
A light meal does not influence the laboratory coagulation tests we assessed, but we suggest that the laboratory quality managers standardize the fasting time for all blood tests at 12 hours, to completely metabolize the lipids intake.
Prices of laboratory tests are indeed higher in Zimbabwean institutions compared to other centres abroad. These higher prices could be attributed to challenges in consumable procurement logistics. We also present measures that could be put in place to reduce the costs and therefore prices.
In terms of organ sparing, the PTV(10mm) method was inferior but not significantly different from the PTV(Red) and PTV(Hull) approaches. PTV(Hull) was most insensitive to target motion.
Our study reveals that a considerable number of ultrasound probes are contaminated with human and HR-HPV DNA, despite LLD disinfection and probe cover. In all hospitals, where LLD is performed, the endovaginal ultrasound procedure must therefore be considered a source for nosocomial HR-HPV infections. We recommend the stringent use of high-level disinfectants, such as glutaraldehyde or hydrogen peroxide solutions.
Non-gadolinium-enhanced MRI had a moderate sensitivity for HCC but had a high specificity. Although non-gadolinium-enhanced MRI cannot be recommended as a primary imaging approach for HCC, the results demonstrate the contribution of non-gadolinium-enhanced sequences to imaging of HCC. A non-gadolinium-enhanced MRI protocol may have a diagnostic value when gadolinium cannot be administered.
The data from this meta-analysis indicate that intravenous tranexamic acid may reduce blood loss and transfusion need in patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty without increasing the risk of complications. However, high-quality randomized controlled trials are required to validate the results.
The findings indicate that patient assessments of care may be a sensitive measure for discriminating among hospitals. In addition, hospital scores are reproducible and not substantially affected by case-mix differences. If our findings regarding patient assessments are generalizable to other patient populations and delivery settings, these measures may be a useful tool for consumers in selecting hospitals or other healthcare providers.
The results show an effect on risk factors broadly similar but slightly greater in magnitude than that achieved in the OXCHECK and British Family Heart Studies of nurse-delivered risk factor intervention in primary care. The results suggest that more intensive effort in lifestyle modification and health promotion, with more active involvement of doctors, could produce significant additional benefit. The cost-effectiveness of this approach compares favourably with many other accepted measures in coronary heart disease prevention.
Overall, the selected serum proteins showed moderate ability for detecting lesions. However, they are probably more indicative of secondary effects such as inflammation rather than specific for malignancy.
The results of this study suggest that subjects at high risk for developing M2 periodontal defects after M3 removal may benefit from the use of DBP placed at the time of M3 extraction to enhance periodontal healing.
The increased costs for the operative time and the pathologists needed to obtain routine FS are not supported with any substantial benefit in patient outcome.
Many lymph nodes that are enlarged and considered metastatic by standard CT-based criteria appear to be negative on FDG-PET scan. Alternately, a small proportion of marginally enlarged nodes are positive on FDG-PET scan. However, the results are largely dependent on the PET segmentation tool used, and until proper validation FDG-PET is not recommended for target volume definition of metastatic lymph nodes in routine practice.
Socioeconomic status is not associated with mortality in the older persons from community-acquired pneumonia in Ontario, Canada.
Admission to hospital provides opportunities for both routine and catch-up immunisation; however, for opportunistic immunisation to be effective, health service screening and immunisation documentation must be accurate.
Although the findings are consistent with possible adverse effects of anesthesia and surgery during infancy on subsequent academic achievement, other explanations are possible and further investigations are needed.
Of the 2 PWI parameters, CBFsq lesions most closely identifies, and MTTsq overestimates, final T2WI lesion volume. "DWI/PWI mismatch" does not identify lesion growth. Patients without "DWI/PWI mismatch" are equally likely to have lesion growth as those with mismatch and should not be excluded from acute stroke treatment.
Our data suggest that illicit cannabis abuse can result in cannabis allergy with sensitization to ns-LTP. This sensitization might result in various plant-food allergies. Additional collaborative studies in different geographical areas are needed to further elucidate on this hypothesis.
Despite its frequently demonstrated beneficial effects on coronary artery disease risk, alcohol consumption in this study was not associated with calcified atherosclerotic plaque in the coronary arteries or in the aorta. This suggests that its effects on cardiovascular risk may occur through mechanisms other than those associated with the development of calcified plaque.
These data suggest that eptifibatide benefited unstable angina patients more than myocardial infarction patients, especially among those who underwent early percutaneous coronary intervention, and support its use as concomitant therapy with early percutaneous coronary intervention especially in female myocardial infarction patients.
Lumbar spinal fusion for degenerative disease without closed suction drainage in the immediate post-op period does not appear to increase the risks of wound related complications postoperatively as compared to historical controls. The routine use of postoperative closed-suction drainage following a single level posterior lumbar fusion for degenerative disease is not supported by the currently available literature. Such a conclusion is not applicable in nondegenerative pathologies such as metastatic disease following radiation where the risk of bleeding and wound complications may be much greater. In addition, individual patient subgroups with degenerative disease, such as those at risk for perioperative epidural bleeding, may benefit from the placement of a perisurgical drain.
Both our results and a literature review suggest that the few reported cases of related autoimmune thyroiditis and virus C infection are probably coincidental.
While lymph node involvement was associated with decreased survival, the impact of mediastinal location on survival did not differ from that of hilar location. Consequently, these patients should not be excluded from surgical treatment.
Hollenhorst plaques are a marker of significant carotid disease irrespective of retinal symptoms. Carotid auscultation remains important in the examination of patients with Hollenhorst plaques and increases the yield of asymptomatic patients diagnosed with carotid stenosis. The presence of visual symptoms on presentation did not correlate with an increased risk of death or stroke compared to asymptomatic patients during follow-up. Therefore all patients with asymptomatic plaques should have a medical workup, including carotid ultrasonography.
Animals of both age groups exhibited permanent changes of motor performance; however, both the pattern and the time course of these changes was related to age when SE was elicited.
Women with premenopausal cancers generally exhibit early and favorable histopathological symptoms. Although advanced stage endometrium cancer incidence was detected to be higher in the premenopausal endometrium cancer patients aged above 45 years compared to other age subgroups. A significant difference in terms of survival rates between these groups was not reached. In the same manner, the authors did not find a significant difference in survival rates among different weight subgroups of premenopausal endometrium cancer patients. As a secondary result, the authors discovered that diabetes mellitus and hypertension play a key role in patients with a BMI above 30 kg/m2 and nulliparity and infertility play a key role in patients with a BMI below 25 kg/m2 in the development of premenopausal endometrial cancer.
The rate of primary CD is increasing, despite improvements in patient risk profile. The increasing CD rate may result from changes in physician behavior, institutional factors, and increasing patient demand for elective cesarean delivery.
There was substantial variation in cost per case of chlamydia sequelae used in published chlamydia screening economic evaluations, which likely arose from different assumptions about disease management pathways and the country perspectives taken. In light of this, when interpreting these studies, the reader should be satisfied that the cost estimates used sufficiently reflect the perspective taken and current disease management for their respective context.
Deficits in certain executive functions and nonverbal memory are possibly state independent. Neuropsychological deficits are possibly candidate endophenotype markers for OCD and may help clarify genetic contributions. Future studies should evaluate unaffected siblings to establish deficits are endophenotype markers. Prospective studies with serial measurements of cognitive deficits are also needed to assess whether these deficits are cumulative with the progression of illness.
The model including TLL to predict the walked distance by healthy children explained more of the variation on the walked distance in the 6MWT than the model using the height but without significant difference between the models.
IGFBP-1 inversely correlated to adiposity and HOMA index. Among adiposity indexes, SST was the best predictor of IGFBP-1 levels. The evaluation of some components of the IGF system, and simple measures of body adiposity, such as SST, may represent a further tool to better evidence phenotype profiles associated to the pathogenetic mechanism of cardiovascular risk factor clustering in male adults.
MetS-child was highly prevalent in overweight/obese children and adolescents. A higher prevalence of MetS according to adolescent- as compared to child-specific criteria was found.
A malignant glioma should always be considered as a differential diagnosis of an unclear contrast-enhancing cerebral lesion even for patients with a known malignancy. Furthermore, we make the case for a more liberal indication for 5-ALA.
The clinical outcome confirmed the indications for transplant nephrectomy. Our future approach will be more aggressive: as soon as symptoms such as unexplained fever, local pain or macroscopic hematuria appear, graft removal will be performed without delay.
There may be a relationship between TL fascia injury and residual back pain after PVP.
To our knowledge this is the first study to show that oral vitamin B(12) effectively increases serum levels in pediatric patients with prior ileocystoplasty.
Restaging transurethral resection identifies patients with T1 bladder cancer who are at high risk for early tumor progression, justifying immediate cystectomy.
Less than 20% of the fall in the prevalence of left handedness was accounted for by questions relating to writing and drawing. The fall in the prevalence of sinistrals in older age groups is not adequately explained by cohort effects of forced dextrality on the writing hand.
The majority of women who sustain a third degree tear have minimal or no symptoms of faecal incontinence when assessed antenatally in a subsequent pregnancy. 70% go on to have a vaginal delivery, with little impact on faecal continence. These findings provide reassurance for patients and clinicians about the safety of vaginal delivery following anal sphincter injury in appropriately selected patients.
Pathological T4 UTUC is associated with poor prognosis. Peri-operative chemotherapy combined with aggressive surgery, including lymph node dissection, may improve oncological outcomes. Our findings support the use of aggressive multimodal treatment in patients with advanced UTUC.
Surgeon intent, regardless of the amount of neurovascular tissue identified on radical prostatectomy specimen, is predictive of postoperative sexual-related and urinary quality of life. This suggests that factors other than the amount of neurovascular tissue spared contribute to postoperative sexual and urinary function.
We recommend five culture-sets till one year after successful eradication therapy with a distinction between those at risk for early recurrence and HCWs who require frequent culturing in the beginning and those not at risk for early recurrence. This recommendation is a balance between the need for swift detection of MRSA recurrence and the patients' burden.
AR was present in 37.5% of the hips in the Pemberton group after skeletal maturity. Remodeling of acetabular version was observed in younger patients; however, hips in older patients (>8 years) at the time of operation and greater degrees of correction tended to result in AR.
The results of this study show that in preulcerative Buruli ulcer disease, bacilli may extend beyond the actual size of the lesion and that there is a strong correlation between the presence of M. ulcerans in the margin samples and the surgical distance. Excision with a surgical distance of 25 mm avoided the risk of remaining mycobacteria in this study. However, no recurrences occurred in the patients with M. ulcerans-positive excision margins. The need of postoperative antimycobacterial treatment in these patients remains to be determined.
The use of armrests in simulated laparoscopic surgery brings measurable comfort and task performance benefits, which could transfer to actual surgical procedures.
After controlling for clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, the degree of reimbursement restriction recommended by NICE remains significantly correlated with the PBI, despite that fact that the NICE decision process does not consider budget impact. This correlation might be due to NICE consideration of effectiveness and cost-effectiveness for subgroups of the approved population.
The cardiovascular effects of doxepin in depressed patients with heart disease are comparable to those documented for imipramine and nortriptyline. Doxepin afforded no greater margin of cardiovascular safety; in fact, the drug was poorly tolerated by this patient population.
Participants improved significantly on anxiety measures independently of drug condition, after 4 sessions of VRET. These data do not support the initial findings of exposure-enhancing effects of YOH in this dosage in clinical populations.
There were socio-economic and geographic inequities in the financial burden resulting from malaria treatment. The treatment expenditure depleted more of the aggregate income of the two worse-off SES (Q1 and Q2) and of the rural dwellers. Government and donor agencies should institute the abolition of user fees for malaria, the transition from OOP to pre-payment mechanisms and the improvement of physical access to appropriate malaria treatment services, as well as subsidies and deferrals in order to engender financial risk protection from malaria treatment.
Discordance places twins at increased risk for some adverse perinatal outcomes, whether they are AGA or SGA. Discordance was not an independent risk factor for serious neonatal morbidity or mortality; however, this study was underpowered to detect those differences.
Female students had higher empathic concern and personal distress dispositions. The differences in the empathy scores of students in different stages of medical school were small. Among all of the studied variables, personal accomplishment held the most important association with decreasing personal distress and was also a predicting variable for perspective taking.
Although a PET scan is more likely to diagnose multiple DM sites, there was no difference in life expectancy based on imaging modality. Patients who are symptomatic from their distant metastasis have a worse life expectancy, and palliative chemotherapy was able to increase life expectancy, even in patients who were symptomatic from the distant metastasis.
This study suggests that caregivers to care recipients with a mental and especially a combination of mental and somatic illnesses have a higher subjective caregiver burden compared with caregivers to care recipients with a somatic illness. Because the study is not representative of all caregivers, more research focusing on identifying and contacting informal caregivers is needed to confirm the result.
The main conclusion was that it is feasible to conduct ex ante assessments of the value for money of HTA for specific topics. However, substantial work is required to ensure that the methods used are valid, reliable, consistent, and an efficient use of valuable research time.
Under static conditions, LLIs lead to significant changes of the pelvic position and spinal posture. Despite all known age-related changes, no significant differences of the measured pelvic and spinal parameters in elderly patients as a response to the simulated LLIs occurred.
Our study suggests that UMBP infants might experience more postoperative pain in the ward, without any impact on various outcomes. A prospective study with a larger sample size should be undertaken to verify these findings.
Our data suggest that children with low grade hydronephrosis and otherwise normal kidneys and bladder do not benefit from voiding cystourethrographic screening. Interestingly high grade hydronephrosis appears to carry a threefold greater risk of urinary tract infection compared to low grade hydronephrosis.
Compared to SH, EH did not have any prognostic benefit in clinical stage I endometrial cancer. Until the therapeutic role of the EH is determined by further studies using a larger sample size, SH remains the treatment of choice in patients with early endometrial cancer, and surgeons should not perform extended operation without definite evidence of the disease.
Excessive prehospital fluid replacement leads to an increased mortality rate. The results of this study support the concept of restrained volume replacement in the prehospital treatment of patients with severe trauma.
From the perspective of doctors, speech that appears to be critical probably reflects therapeutic intent and might therefore be better described as "confrontation." Understanding doctors' motivations for what they say to patients with MUSs will allow for more effective interventions to improve the quality of consultations.
Fourth-year medical students were less prepared to manage a simulated STEMI case compared with a range of nonacute conditions. Given the prevalence of coronary artery disease and the necessity of interns to be equipped to handle emergent situations, this deficiency should be addressed in undergraduate medical curricula.
Patients with histologic grade 1 and grade 2 (except N3) are at low risk of DM. Patients with grade 2 and N3 or patients with grade 3 and N1 to N3 have a higher risk of distant metastases and should be considered for systemic treatment.
We found no evidence for social barriers for utilising inpatient rehabilitation, but rather that medical and particularly individual reasons apply.
It is concluded that schizophrenia is associated with a specific deficit in conceptual implicit memory, irrespective of the degree of response competition in the test phase.
There is a significant incidence of lymph nodes (67%) and axillary node metastases (10%) in the tissue lying between the long thoracic and thoracodorsal nerves. Therefore excision of this internerve tissue is strongly recommended in order to optimize decision making regarding adjuvant treatment and oucome in women with operable breast cancer.
Female physicians with children at home spend more time on child care and household maintenance than their male partners. These responsibilities reduce professional work time (at least until all children are at school full time) and might deter women from active involvement in professional organizations.
The main findings support an effect of education beyond shared familial factors.
Height of fall is only one factor that must be considered in dealing with fracture injury in children aged 24 months or under. However, significant injury presenting with falls from less than 50 cm should be critically evaluated.
In stable septic patients, the PCO2 gap is not correlated with global indexes of gut oxygenation. The interpretation of PCO2 gap is more complex than previously thought.
It is suggested that the advice these pregnant women were reported to have received, should rather be interpreted as an indication of shared decision-making and social support than of social pressure and undesired influence.
Postoperative ileus stands out as one of the most frequent complications that causes increased length of stay. More detailed studies are required to determine perioperative regimens to reduce this complication.
Findings suggest that the CDT identifies older persons at high risk of cognitive decline and adds prognostic information that supplements the standard MMSE test.
It is important to underline that the higher value of ferritin in patients with chronic pain due to dialysis- -related arthropathy could represent a new stimulus for a deeper investigation of this indicator, setting a periodic revelation of pain intensity.
Emergency hospital care for eCOPD does not usually induce changes in inhaled maintenance treatment for COPD regardless of the duration of the hospital stay.
The use of antithrombotic agents could be associated with the deterioration after admission and the poor clinical outcome. CLP/TIC use may affect the poor outcome compared with ASA use.
CsA cotreatment in PHI patients appears not to substantially modify HIV coreceptors' expression in PBMC. However, this novel piece of information should be used with caution, since this was not a randomized study between the HAART and the HAART + CsA groups.
Endoscopic findings were associated with distinct attributes of reflux symptoms. Symptoms are only modestly predictive of findings at endoscopy.
Some differences emerged in the clinical phenotype of PR according to ACPA status. Most patients with PR do not have US subclinical synovitis in the intercritical period, even those who are ACPA-positive.
We could prove that learning by teaching CPR is possible and is highly accepted by the students. By offering a compelling appreciation of what CPR can achieve in using survivors from SCD as trainees made them go deeper into the subject of resuscitation, what also might result in a longer lasting benefit than regular lecture courses in CPR.
In our institution, preoperative staging for cancer of the pancreatic head misses a substantial number of metastatic and unresectable disease. There is clearly room for improvement, and newer technologies should be evaluated to enhance the detection of metastatic and locally advanced disease to prevent unnecessary laparotomy.
The NEC-related mortality in newborns undergoing laparotomy was not influenced by disease site (small or large bowel). However, jejunum coinvolvement was a marker of greater disease extent and therefore of poor prognosis.
In patients with early pregnancies who have questionable gestational sacs on sonography with standard 6-7-MHz transducers, the 10-MHz probe improves the diagnostic confidence of the presence of an intrauterine gestational sac.
Fiberoptic intubation and the LMA are most popular in management of the difficult airway.
The use of a stabilizing internal guide wire in linear microdialysis probes did not influence the in vitro recovery of microdialysis at volumetric flow rates below 10 microL/min. These are the flow rates most frequently used for in vivo microdialysis studies in the skin.
An early increased-intensity interdisciplinary upper limb therapy programme jointly provided by a physiotherapist and occupational therapist did not improve outcome after stroke. The actual difference in the amount of therapy received by intervention and control groups was less than planned due to a competitive therapy bias.
These findings suggest that the oldest drivers, a group with low average annual mileage, do pose some increased risks to occupants of other vehicles, and pose the most serious risks to themselves and their passengers.
Although the suggestion that breakfast is a behavioural marker for appropriate dietary and physical activity patterns is not refuted by the present findings, our data suggest that the effect of breakfast may vary as a function of gender and morning eating habits, and thus there may be other mechanisms that link BMI and breakfast consumption behaviour.
The current findings were consistent with the hypothesis that vitamin D deficiency contributes to excess African-American mortality from CRC. Cancer 2011.
There is considerable potential for decreased use of platelet transfusions with a consequent improvement in their appropriate use and cost reduction.
A fixed TAB length of at least 0.5 cm could be sufficient to make a histological diagnosis of giant cell arteritis.
Our findings do not support a strong excess maternal transmission of diabetes. Epidemiological biases and failure to account for 'don't know' responses may in part explain the previously observed predominance of a maternal history of diabetes.
Propofol can be considered for general anesthesia in children who are receiving chemotherapeutic drugs that are themselves associated with acute pancreatitis or those who have a history of chemotherapy-induced pancreatitis.
We found that of 546 sonograms undertaken in pregnant women with vaginal bleeding in the first trimester, only 20 patients (3.7%) fell in the MSD range of 16-20 mm. Therefore, even among those diagnosticians who adopt the most stringent criterion (MSD = 20 mm), an additional examination would be requested in fewer than 1 in 25 patients.
The GFX stent is a safe and effective device with a high procedural success rate and favorable late clinical outcome for treatment of native coronary artery disease. Further randomized trials may be needed to compare stenting techniques in GFX stent implantation.
These data indicate that preoperative FPs are lower in patients who develop steal syndrome after hemodialysis access. Patients with preoperative DBIs<1.0 are more likely to develop steal, but there is no DBI threshold below which steal is inevitable. Steal is more likely in patients undergoing brachial-based arteriovenous fistulas than in those receiving prosthetic grafts.
Retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy has become a standardized procedure. It should be offered as the primary treatment modality to patients with benign renal disease scheduled for elective nephrectomy except in those in whom it is contraindicated.
RVR and absence of cirrhosis are the strongest predictive factors of SVR in HCV genotype 1 patients. Assessment of RVR is very useful in all pretreatment status patients in predicting SVR and provides information for individualizing therapy.
This is the first study to report a unique association between inattention symptoms and behavioral measures of choice impulsivity and delay aversion. The findings indicate the importance of the primary constitutional processes that underlie choice impulsivity and their potential role in behavioral inattention. Understanding the behavioral and brain processes underlying choice impulsivity may lead to the improved targeting of behavioral and pharmacological interventions.
Findings highlight the need to consider multiple forms of child abuse as well as family functioning in relation to the risk of adult sexual victimization. Findings suggest CSA is a risk factor for adult victimization independent of family functioning, and family dysfunction exerts an impact on rape only in relation to CEA.
As clinical outcomes did not differ significantly between the two arms in the trial, taking into account the difference in costs and potential issues with sustainability, secondary prevention might be a more strategic option.
The establishment of interprofessional teamwork is a major challenge for modern healthcare. This study indicates some directions for more successful interprofessional education. Efforts should be directed at informing particularly male medical students about the need for teamwork in modern healthcare systems. The results also imply that study of other factors, such as the student's personality, is needed for fully understanding readiness for teamwork and interprofessional collaboration in healthcare. We also believe that the RIPL Scale still can be further adjusted.
The process that leads to burnout and the process that leads to engagement are not isolated processes; engagement acts as a moderator of burnout.
The prevalence of posterior crossbite is higher in mouth breathing children than in the general population. During mixed and permanent dentitions, anterior open bite and class II malocclusion were more likely to be present in mouth breathers. Although more children showed these malocclusions, most mouth breathing children evaluated in this study did not match the expected "mouth breathing dental stereotype". In this population of mouth breathing children, the obstructive size of adenoids or tonsils and the presence of rhinitis were not risk factors to the development of class II malocclusion, anterior open bite or posterior crossbite.
These data lend support to the thesis that monitoring of reticulocyte parameters can be of use in detecting iron deficient erythropoiesis in female athletes.
This study shows a significant correlation between excessive intestinal gas and liver steatosis. The reasons of this finding and its clinical implications remain to be defined.
We identified an ethnic diversity in stroke risk among the Israeli born in different parts of the world beyond what could be expected on the basis of differences in known risk factors. These findings call for detailed research aimed at identifying additional differences in the risk profile of patients with atherothrombotic disease exposed to an increased risk of stroke.
DV-PVIV values above 0.62 at the time of fetal echocardiographic examination can predict failure of functional closure of the foramen ovale in the postnatal period.
It is likely that Badal optometers affect accommodation through a combination of some or all of the studied parameters. We conclude that accommodation response to closed-view Badal optometers is not equivalent to real space target response.
The data suggest that walking barefoot is a risk factor for diabetic foot disease. Thus, public health messages in developing countries with large rural populations who walk barefoot should strongly advise diabetics to use footwear for a greater part of the day. This may be overlook in literature originating from affluent countries where footwear use is the norm. Further studies are indicated to investigate potential associations between walking barefoot, rurality and cultural factors.
Frequent self-weighing was not associated with weight change, with the exception of predicting weight increases in younger females. In females, but not males, self-weighing predicted a higher frequency of binge eating and unhealthy weight control behaviors. Although further research is needed to explore the potential merits and problems associated with regular self-weighing, the findings suggest that population-based obesity prevention strategies targeting adolescents should avoid messages likely to lead to frequent self-weighing.
The positive association between breastfeeding and IGF-I could be due to residual confounding or to chance. Nevertheless, the magnitude of the fully adjusted effect estimate and the novelty of the association suggest that larger studies should now be conducted to confirm or refute the hypothesis that variations in IGF-I by infant feeding mode explain associations of breastfeeding with health in later life.
These results suggest that hyperactivation and inhibition deficits present in insomnia sufferers are directly associated with a poorer sleep quality. This highlights once again that when information processing and/or performance is assessed, the sleep quality of the night preceding the evaluation shall be documented.
Conversion to core biopsy for the preoperative diagnosis of breast lesions increases specificity and reduces inadequate and suspicious rates. Grading and typing of tumours and assessment of oestrogen receptor status by immunocytochemistry is also possible in core biopsy, thereby increasing diagnostic information available when considering treatment options.
In the context of a mesothelial proliferation, the finding of homozygous deletion of p16 by FISH or loss of BAP1 by immunohistochemistry is, thus far, 100% specific for malignant mesothelioma. The limited sensitivity of each test may be improved to some extent by running both tests.
This study suggests that hypertensives have high plasma fibrinogen levels, platelet dysfunction (which could contribute to atherogenesis, as indicated by raised soluble P-selectin levels) and endothelial dysfunction (as indicated by high von Willebrand factor levels), which are related to diastolic blood pressure. These factors may act synergistically to increase atherogenesis and may explain the high risk of atherosclerotic vascular disease in hypertensives.
IVF and ICSI, by increasing the risks of prematurity, low birthweight, and multiple gestation, are indirect risk factors for developing male genital malformations. In infants with normal birhtweight or from singleton pregnancies, ICSI is a specific risk factor for hypospadias.
People in induced depress mood would have a lower willingness to take risk than people in neutral and in positive mood. The manner in which decisions were influenced by negative mood was discussed. The asymmetry of influence of different mood states on risk-taking decisions was also discussed.
Consequently, in patients with normal preoperative renal and cardiac function scheduled for elective coronary artery bypass grafting, renal dose dopamine infusion alone may not provide sufficient protection on tubular function and increases renal tubular injury during the early postoperative period.
SS should be considered in patients with cutaneous amyloidosis. The combination of cutaneous amyloidosis and SS appears to be a distinct disease entity reflecting a particular and benign part of the polymorphic spectrum of lymphoproliferative diseases related to SS.
Although offering excellent outcomes, stentless valves did not demonstrate superior hemodynamic indices in comparison to stented valves up to 12 months after implantation.
The combination of oxaliplatin and 5-fluorouracil sensitized colorectal carcinoma cells to ionizing radiation in vitro. In vivo, however, oxaliplatin did not convincingly improve the increased radiocytotoxicity conferred by capecitabine treatment. In the absence of conclusive clinical evidence, the integration of OXA into combined-modality treatment of rectal cancer must remain controversial.
The evidence suggests that attendance at a summer program that allowed students to learn about and interact with various healthcare professionals significantly improves perceived self-efficacy towards pursuing a career in the healthcare field. Parental education may not be a predicting factor for the change in perceived self-efficacy after attendance at such educational camps.
Under realistic life conditions (social drinking of moderate doses of ethanol after a light lunch) only a minor, gender-independent first-pass metabolism is observed that is partly of gastric origin.
The most significant indicators of the utilization and efficacy of general hospitals were improved. Nevertheless, European and domestic guidelines were achieved only in the average length of treatment.
Our algorithms showed that the addition of the mid-thigh tissue evaluation in birthweight prediction was valuable in comparison to birthweight prediction models which are based on routine ultrasound parameters.
Application of AUC yields results similar to those reported from the USA; ∼1 in 10 scans could be avoided.
Health plans continuing to provide care to Medicare beneficiaries have higher average performance on HEDIS clinical and ambulatory care access measures than plans that withdrew.
Growing pain is a clinical diagnosis and if precise inclusion and exclusion criteria in history and physical examination are considered, there will be no need for laboratory tests in order to make a diagnosis.
Although somewhat insensitive, the high specificity of hysterosalpingography makes it very helpful for ruling out tubal disease, even where endoscopic evaluation is available.
A coexistence of obesity and poor Fe status were observed in these elderly respondents. The positive relationship between hs-CRP and BMI indicated chronic inflammation in the higher BMI groups. The negative relationship between hs-CRP and serum Fe indicated that lower serum Fe levels were related to the inflammation linked with higher BMI. A relationship between obesity-related chronic, low-grade inflammation and poor Fe status has been found in adults, but the significance of the current study is that this relationship was also confirmed for elderly persons.
Appropriate adjustment for confounding in orthodontic literature either at the design or at the analysis stage was identified in less than half of studies overall (41 per cent), suggesting lack of expertise and awareness in design, conduct, analysis, and reporting of non-randomized studies in this field. This is a critical limitation that can potentially result in biased estimates and associations between examined exposures and outcomes.
Although LALIF is a safe and effective procedure, it has many disadvantages, which make it a less than optimal procedure for routine use. Other minimally invasive approaches to the anterior lumbar spine result in similar beneficial results without the drawbacks associated with LALIF.
Ownership of mosquito nets and dwelling characteristics are critical factors influencing infections with malaria. There is a need to ensure compliance with its use since there are disparities between access and actual usage. Also, addressing malaria problem in Cameroon should consider regional disparity in malaria incidence rates and more engagement of the media, among others, for appropriate sensitization.
The majority had ≥1 frailty marker. Low grip strength predicted toxicity, none of the functional measures did. Further researcher investigating the usefulness of frailty markers is needed.
We found that a lack of informed decision-making occurred during CRC screening discussions and that particular elements of the process were negatively associated with screening. Further research is needed to better understand the effects of informed decision-making on screening behavior.
The advantages of the laparoscopic technique, indirectly documented by shorter in-hospital stay. At least for patients submitted to right or left hemicolectomy without complications (5.5 e 5.7 days, respectively), could be seen also after only a 1 year of activity. As far as the "learning curve" is concerned, dividing our activity into 3 times, we verified a progressive shortening of the operative time and, at least for the patients submitted to a right emicolecomy, also of the morbidity rates.
After adjusting for other factors associated with repetition there was an association of patients who were offered and thereafter attended an early follow-up visit and a decreased risk of repeated DSH.
The type of school used as an alternative indicator for socioeconomic status is a feasible predictor for caries experience in epidemiological dental caries studies involving preschool children in Brazilian context.
Youth in supervised settings may be less likely to participate in sexual activity because of the presence of assets. Certain assets may also be important in deterring sexual activity for youth who are in self-care.
We found marked differences in cord leptin levels between Pakistani and White British infants but no evidence that this difference increases with increasing birthweight.
Asthma prevalence has not increased during the last decade in Italy. The persistence of an increasing trend in allergic rhinitis prevalence deserves attention.
Glans penis width was not a risk factor for complications after hypospadias repair. This finding differs from the results of other recent studies and encourages further research into the value of measuring penile parameters in patients undergoing hypospadias repair.
The results from this study indicate that WSR is not different in the supra-aortic vessels. Therefore the atherosclerotic pattern in the subclavian and innominate arteries may not be explained by differences in these hemodynamic forces.
Antenatal screening for psychosocial risk factors was useful in identifying problems during the antenatal period, but was not useful as a predictor of postnatal depression.
People with symptomatic knee OA have the highest risk of a fast decline trajectory of gait speed compared with people with ROA or pain alone.
Doppler studies of the uterine artery as a test for the subsequent development of pregnancy complications are best performed at 20 weeks with a combination of RI measurements and the assessment of the presence of diastolic notches.
From the present study, it seems that OCP could have no effects on nasal airflow, confirming that modern OCP with lower estrogen doses should not affect nasal mucosa or nasal patency.
In Lusaka, Zambia, large numbers of individuals with late-stage HIV are being incidentally diagnosed in outpatient settings. Our findings suggest that PITC in this setting does not facilitate more timely diagnosis and referral to care but rather act as a "safety net" for individuals who are unwilling or unable to seek testing independently. Further work is needed to document the way provision of clinic-based services can be strengthened and linked to community-based interventions and to address socio-cultural norms and socio-economic status that underpin healthcare-seeking behaviour.
In this study, we found no evidence that the relationship between age and the consequences of work injury is exacerbated when physical occupational demands are high.
Based on the evidence of objective and subjective parameters, a dry laser printer equals the image quality of a wet laser printer in FFDM. Therefore, not only for reasons of environmental preference, the replacement of wet laser printers by dry laser printers in FFDM is justified.
integrated care pathways may improve assessment and communication, even in specialist stroke settings.
Overall, the DASS-21 is a reliable and valid measure of depression, anxiety and stress in elderly patients with persistent pain. There are some age differences in the normative values for the reporting of mood symptoms and these need to be taken into account when assessing pain-related mood disturbance in older populations.
Our results indicate an increased prevalence of subclinical glucocorticoid deficiency in patients receiving imatinib mesylate for CML. Therefore under stressed conditions, such as intercurrent illness state, overt and untreated partial glucocorticoid deficiency in CML patients become life threatening.
Patients who experienced greater pain with the introduction of the probe also reported more pain with the biopsy procedure. The site of local anaesthetic before prostatic biopsy showed no significant difference in pain scores. Older men tolerated the procedure better. Analgesia after PPNB at near either the apex or base appears equal, regardless of the site of injection. We suggest that topical perianal anaesthetic agents could significantly reduce not only pain perception, but also improve tolerance.
Patients with Lenke 1C tended to be decompensated to the left preoperatively. In those decompensated preoperatively who underwent a STF, the majority remained greater than 2 cm to the left at 2-year follow-up. Patients with both thoracic and lumbar curves fused had better coronal balance at 2 years than selectively treated patients. Although not a contraindication to performing a selective fusion, treating surgeons should be prepared for modest coronal decompensation in 40% of patients with Lenke 1C treated with selective fusion of the thoracic curve alone.
ACI is a viable treatment option for full-thickness chondral defects in the knee of both genders. Isokinetic muscle strength measures are significantly worse in women (p<0.05), but physiological and may play a role for the explanation of gender-specific results after ACI.
The transfection experiments in mammalian cell lines support our hypothesis that the hearing impairment associated with DFNA5 is caused by a "gain of function" mutation and that mutant DFNA5 has a deleterious new function.
A higher proportion of academic otolaryngologists with prior AAO-HNSF CORE funding have received NIH funding relative to their non-CORE-funded peers, suggesting that the CORE program may be successful in its stated goals of preparing individuals for the NIH peer review process, although further prospective study is needed to evaluate a "cause and effect" relationship. Individuals with current or prior NIH K-grants had greater research productivity than those with CORE funding history. Both cohorts had higher scholarly impact values than previously published figures among academic otolaryngologists, highlighting that both CORE grants and NIH K-grants awards are effective career development resources.
Sentence context increases reading speed regardless of the position of the text on the retina. Reading rates in peripheral retina are not decreased because of an inability to use sentence context.
These results may suggest the absence of durable immunity or clinical resilience following a first episode of campylobacteriosis and periodical re-exposure, at least among cases reported through the surveillance system.
LOD improves the ovarian response to CC in at least one-third of CC-resistant patients who remained anovulatory following LOD especially in women who are less hyperandrogenic and less insulin resistant.
We found no difference in infant mortality (odds ratio 1.0) among<2500 g newborns residing in regions characterized by a large difference in tertiary NICU utilization. Nevertheless, the limited sample size did not permit specific analyses of lower birthweight (e.g.<1500 g) newborns. Replication of such research in other settings based on larger samples is needed.
Although there were plenty of electronic data in optometric practice, this was highly variable and often not in an easily analysed format. To facilitate analysis of the evidence for public health purposes a UK based minimum dataset containing standardised clinical information is recommended. Further research would be required to develop suitable coding for the individual metrics included. The dataset would need to capture information from all sectors of the population to ensure effective planning of any future interventions.
In our Near Eastern cohort, the BRAF mutation rate varied significantly by geographic location. In patients with multiple dysplastic nevi examined, discordant BRAF mutation status potentially negates an underlying constitutional predilection.
The intervention resulted in a majority of children being assessed by their general practitioner and improved teachers' understanding and management of asthma, but it did not result in any appreciable reduction in morbidity.
PDD using hypericin shows promise, as it has a higher sensitivity but equivalent specificity than WLC. It can be used to detect flat lesions not seen on WLC. PDD testing is also well tolerated with minimal side-effects.
Better evidence for the utility of greenspace in the prevention of weight gain is required before greenspace interventions are developed.
The protocol appears to be efficacious in the treatment of children and adolescents with NHL, irrespective of histopathologic subtype. Achievement of CR after intensive induction chemotherapy was an important prognostic factor. Early response to treatment may be used to stratify risk groups and modify therapy in children with NHL.
The clinical evidence on stump closure methods in laparoscopic appendectomy favors the routine use of endoscopic staplers.
Although the vascularity of normal and inflamed appendices may be different, this difference was not a good diagnostic indicator of appendicitis.
More precise and descriptive alternatives to the term 'OBPP' are available and acceptable to many surgeons. An alternative to 'OBPP' may improve communication between practitioners, families and the legal system, especially in the United States. Our peripheral nerve organisations may be able to provide further leadership on this matter.
Patients with uncomplicated skull fractures, in the absence of recurrent emesis and/or evidence of child abuse, can be considered for discharge home. The definition of an uncomplicated skull fracture requires that a head CT be performed on these patients.
There is a difference between cystometries performed using RT and BT saline. Capacity, storage variables and detrusor activity are diminished during BT cystometry. Although statistically significant differences were found between consecutive RT and BT CMGs, the magnitude of the difference may not be clinically relevant to change management. As such, we do not believe it is necessary to use warm infusion solution on a systematic basis for urodynamic studies in children. However, for children younger than 2 years when the magnitude was more relevant, the use of warm solution is recommended.
Use of a 2 μm CW thulium laser is feasible and effective in treating primary NMIBC. With a cystoscopic biopsy of the bladder muscle, 2 μm CW thulium laser could retrieve sufficient diagnostic and prognostic specimens.
These results add to the evidence suggesting an advantage of SPA laparoscopy over conventional laparoscopy in terms of decreasing postoperative pain. Additional large, randomized controlled trials are needed to confirm these findings and to investigate long-term outcomes such as quality of life and cosmesis.
When controlling for age, there is no difference in the TCL between AVRT and AVNRT in children. Age, not tachycardia mechanism, is the most significant factor in predicting TCL.
The results are interpreted as an encouraging first step toward the development of a reliable scale that measures professionalism within the environment of medical education and residency training.
We believe that this technique is preferable for patients with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy and diffuse hypertrophy extending to the midportion of the left ventricle or beyond. It results in disappearance of outflow tract gradients and allows correction of the mitral valve abnormality.
The results of this study support the postulated mediator role of PWB when evaluating OHRQOL outcomes in children undergoing orthodontic treatment. Children with better PWB are, in general, more likely to report better OHRQOL regardless of their orthodontic treatment status. On the other hand, children with low PWB, who did not receive orthodontic treatment, experienced worse OHRQOL compared with those who received treatment. This suggests that children with low PWB can benefit from orthodontic treatment. Nonetheless, further work, with larger samples and longer follow-ups, is needed to confirm this finding and to improve our understanding of how other psychological factors relate to patients' OHRQOL.
None of the four enzymatic tests accurately predicted the perfusion state of the infarct related coronary artery after thrombolysis. These tests cannot be used reliably in routine clinical practice as non-angiographic markers of coronary reperfusion.
This unique case suggests that embryonic cells may have a mechanism for tetraploidy correction that involves mitotic pairing of homologous chromosomes.
V(100) and D(90) increased by 5% +/- 6% and 15% +/- 17%, respectively, during the first 30-60 days after implant. The results of a multivariate linear regression analysis showed that the increases in V(100) and D(90) were proportional to both the magnitude of the edema and the values of these parameters on Day 0. The relationships derived by linear regression analysis predict V(100) and D(90) at 30-60 days after implant to within +/-4% and +/-24 Gy, respectively. However, predicting the 30-60-day V(100) and D(90) on Day 0 is a poor substitute for obtaining a 30-60-day CT scan, because the uncertainty in the predicted values is greater by a factor of>or =2. Nevertheless, on average, the predicted values should provide a more reliable estimate of the actual V(100) and D(90) than the Day 0 values that ignore the effect of edema altogether. The increase in V(100) was also found to depend on the width of the preplan dose margin; therefore, our results for V(100) are only valid for implants planned with a 3-5-mm margin.
Information regarding the assessment and importance of observed soft markers seems to be inconsistent and insufficient. Provision of information and documentation of findings appear to be handled differently at obstetric ultrasound clinics. This suggests that Swedish ethical principles relating to healthcare and ultrasound examinations are incompletely followed and national guidelines appear to be necessary.
Shorter adult height is significantly associated with a shallower anterior chamber depth, but the addition of height contributed little to demographics (age and gender) as the preliminary screening criteria to identify individuals at risk of an occludable angle.
While the average pimonidazole hypoxic fraction in FaDu tumours corresponds well to the radiobiological hypoxic fraction, the variability of pHF in FaDu tumours was not sufficient to explain the heterogeneity of radiation response in the same tumour line. Information on at least one additional parameter is expected to substantially enhance the predictive power of histological markers of tumour hypoxia.
There is capacity to care for the number of serious non-fatally injured patients resulting from the types of mass casualties recently experienced. If there is a further continued shift of uninsured patients to and fiscally driven closure of trauma centers, the surge capacity could be severely compromised.
In general, cause-specific outcomes sensitive to the effects of a treatment are to be preferred as the principal outcome in trials of heart failure, as long as they are biologically sensible and can be classified without bias. Other outcomes, not expected to be affected, should also be reported separately.
VIU offers high success rate and can be sufficient in recurrent strictures of less than 1 cm length after anastomotic urethroplasty in children whenever a guidewire can be passed through the stricture area.
Economic hardship was evident in almost 1 in 2 cancer survivors 1 year after diagnosis, especially AAs. Research should evaluate and address risk factors and their impact on survival and survivorship outcomes.
We found among the 105 diabetics the most common etiology of vascular ED based on Doppler criteria was arterial insufficiency, 64%. Statistical analysis of additional risk factors (SM, HTN, CAD) suggested that patients with IDDM and CAD have more severe cavernosal arterial insufficiency than patients with NIDDM and CAD. This data tends to support the theory that microangiopathy is the predominant factor in diabetic impotence, and that insulin dependent diabetes with 'large vessel' coronary heart disease have a similar pathology in the 'small vessels' regulating penile inflow which is unfortunately worse than their non-insulin dependent counterparts.
According to our study, the presence of large nonfunctional kidneys is not a risk factor for posttransplantation UTI in patients with ADPKD and ESRD.
This study reveals for the first time a strong positive association between plasma FGF21 levels and BMD in healthy women, suggesting the association between bone loss and high FGF21 states in animals may not be directly translated to humans in physiologic states. We hypothesize that FGF21 may increase bone mass particularly in women through paracrine mechanisms in the bone-adipose interface.
SafeClub effectively assisted community soccer clubs to improve their sports safety activities, particularly the foundations and processes for good risk-management practice, in a sustainable way.
A strong association between placenta accreta, placenta praevia and prior Caesarean birth has been demonstrated. As there is the potential for significant maternal morbidity the risk of placenta accreta needs to be recognised and women at risk should be considered for delivery at an institution with appropriate expertise and resources in managing this condition.
Data on HIV prevalence among voluntary blood donors can provide a fairly good understanding of trends and patterns of HIV prevalence among the general population specially among young males. For making meaningful inferences from such analysis, standardization in terms of blood collection, testing for HIV infection, reporting and analysis is called for. This is a very cost-effective method of estimating HIV prevalence, and is amenable to detailed analysis of spatial and temporal trends of HIV infection in the general population.
A history of psychologically traumatic events may be over-represented in children with OCD. Given the need to search for non-genetic factors that may lead to onset of OCD, better and more systematic methods to obtain and quantify psychologically traumatic life events are needed in clinical populations.
Total abstinence rates are highly consistent over time and seem to change little with changes in systems of care. However, changes in care that improve access to treatment may reduce the overall burden of opioid addiction to both individuals and society.
Study findings will be useful to establish priorities in planning nursing interventions to enhance HRQOL in care of women with breast cancer.
M. pygmaeus can cause economic damage to tomato fruits at densities common in practice. An infection of the plants with PepMV enhances fruit symptoms significantly. Interacting plant defence responses are most likely the key to explaining this, although confirmation is required. © 2015 Society of Chemical Industry.
The relatively large proportion of news items framing cannabis as a medicine is consistent with growing support for the expansion of the Israel's CTP program.
Our results suggest that pre-treatment RDW value is a promising novel biomarker for predicting response to the treatment in adult patients with NS due to PGN.
Our results support and extend the findings of other readability studies across many medical specialties, all of which find that patient education materials are written at a difficulty level that is too high. The AAFP and individual family physicians should strive to improve communication with their patients by providing educational materials that are written at an appropriate reading level.
Percutaneous closure of PFO using the 25-mm Amplatzer PFO occluder guided by fluoroscopy only is a safe and efficacious intervention for nearly all patients.
Schizoaffective disorder was found to be different from bipolar disorder and schizophrenia in terms of oxidative parameters. This result may indicate that schizoaffective disorder could differ from bipolar disorder and schizophrenia in terms of biochemical parameters. Increased TOS levels observed in schizoaffective disorder may suggest poor clinical course and may be an indicator of poor prognosis.
Multiple, practical questionnaires with reasonable performance characteristics are available to help clinicians identify and diagnose patients with major depression. Diagnostic confirmation by mental health care professionals using a clinical interview or by primary care physicians using a semistructured interview can be made with high reliability.
Results indicate that the IMB safety warnings had inconsistent effects on the rate of prescribing of drugs considered.
As part of an assessment programme, mini-PAT appears to provide a valid way of collating colleague opinions to help reliably assess Foundation trainees.
Subclinical carditis occurred only in the first-episode patients, which requires further evaluation for clinical significance. Because all deaths occurred in recurrent RF group (P = 0.02), secondary prophylaxis and management of sore throat need re-emphasis.
Grafting of osseous defects distal to mandibular second molars with an anorganic xenograft plus a membrane predictably resulted in a significant reduction in the probing pocket depth, clinical attachment level gain, and bone fill, which suggests that grafting the extraction sites with an anorganic xenograft plus a membrane could prevent periodontal disease in the future.
This study suggests the possibility that the omentum has a role in capturing cancer cells and suppressing further peritoneal dissemination. Therefore, although omentectomy is rewarding if disseminated foci are present in the omentum, it is suggested that the timing of omentectomy requires reconsideration in the absence of omental metastasis.
There may be a concomitant appearance of UP and neoplasms, with mast cells possibly playing a causative role. The existence of neoplasms, including neurofibromas and neurofibroma-like lesions should be considered when examining UP cases.
Advance provision of ECP has the potential to avert unintended pregnancies and reduce medical expenditures. The most likely reason that the advance provision trials fail to demonstrate reductions in pregnancy rates is a result of a combination of small study sizes, the use of ECP in both treatment and control groups, and a failure to take into account a realistic range of rates of unprotected intercourse and imperfect ECP use.
It is anticipated that this research will stimulate nurses and course providers to develop patient group-specific physical intervention techniques and thus reduce the risk of causing them pain and/or injury.
Current spousal caregiving significantly predicted onset of depression; the association was not exacerbated by longer duration of caregiving.
There appears to be considerable synergy between climate change and health promotion action. This should be a key focus of future health promotion competency development in Australia.
Based on the high response rate which excludes a non-responder bias, the results of our study reflect the current status of the diagnosis and therapy of acute pancreatitis in Germany and to what extent international guidelines are known and complied with. This study also highlights the need for additional clinical trials in areas of diagnostic or therapeutic uncertainty.
Exaggerated GH response to provocative tests alone does not appear to be useful in identifying children with GHI.
Direct, person-to-person contact between the geriatric consultant and the family doctor has a beneficial effect on the implementation of geriatric recommendations. This should be considered by healthcare policy makers when planning geriatric services in the community.
TER was necessary in more than one-third of limbs to maintain 2-year SSCS in 49% of patients. EVI was twice as expensive as estimated 2-year costs for supervised exercise and pharmacotherapy, and 10 times more costlier than a 3-month trial. Mandating a trial of conservative therapy before EVI merits consideration.
There is a significant dose-response relationship between percentage of weight loss and symptomatic improvement. This study confirms the feasibility of weight loss as a therapeutic intervention in KOA in a community-based setting.
This case study shows that although single-patient rooms are more costly to build and operate, they can result in substantial savings compared with open-bay rooms by avoiding costs associated with nosocomial infections.
Because heavier smokers with higher risk of health-related consequences were less sensitive to pricing policy than mild smokers, pricing policy alone is not enough to reduce the societal burden caused by smoking. We suggest that additional cessation policy is needed along with pricing policy for adolescents with heavier smoking behavior in Korea.
Greater experience with smear sampling is associated with fewer unsatisfactory smears. The results correlate directly with the total number of smears taken annually. Sampling skill improves in steps, with improvement limited beyond a certain point.
Our results suggest that Met2PY is not always toxic or harmful. In some circumstances, it may even express beneficial and protective properties.
By selecting full thickness suturing technique one may significantly lower the incidence of incomplete healing of the uterine incision after CS.
Cross-sectionally, leptin was significantly associated with insulin resistance in this nondiabetic sample of men and women. There may be a different physiological mechanism to explain the leptin/insulin resistance association apart from the insulin/adiposity link. Confirmatory evidence awaits the results of clinical trials.
Clients of female sex workers report high rates of condom use with sex workers and a low prevalence of chlamydia and gonorrhea. It is unlikely that they constitute a bridging population.
In this setting, the main motivation for physicians to start using PACS is effort expectancy, whereas performance expectancy only becomes important after the physicians started using PACS. It is also very important that physicians perceive that their social environment encourages the use of PACS.
Endoscopic preperitoneal bilateral hernia repair is a safe and reliable technique in the hands of experienced surgeons. The rate of hernia recurrence and complications is low and independent of the mesh configuration (single or double). Mesh configuration based on personal preference is permissible.
A focused academic support intervention for residents with marginal ABSITE TT percentiles can produce immediate substantial gains. Gains are variably maintained through remaining residency years. PGY-5 TT percentiles<or=25, seen with three AI residents (3/8, 38%), are associated with a 40% first QE failure rate. Therefore, our 75% QE first-time pass rate for AI residents argues for intervention success.
These results suggest that the mutant eNOS -786C allele is a significant risk factor in the origin of respiratory and IVH diseases, probably mediating an insufficient supply of endogenous NO in premature infants.
The use of a biologically inert circuit in combination with an optimized perfusion management seems to be worthy of recommendation.
Routine VF induction and documentation of effective defibrillation still remains a reasonable part of ICD placement because an inadequate safety margin may occur in>6% of patients. The incidence of patients who were inappropriate for testing based on well-defined clinical conditions is small (<5%) in this unselected large series. Although some clinical features may predict the need for system modification, additional studies are needed to better define "acceptable efficacy" of ICDs in preventing sudden death prior to altering these standards in selected patients.
SCTA of the renal arteries was best performed with a scan delay of TTEST + 20 s. However, analysis of our data showed that similar results could be expected with a delay of 44 s.
An increased frequency of dry eye disease was found to occur in patients with migraine, which might suggest that migraine headaches are related to dry eye disease. Some migraine attacks may be aggravated in the presence of dry eye syndrome.
This study shows that well-being can be location dependent and that this might be caused by a so-called GSZ. However, in our short-term experiment, factors of work performance tested remained unaffected.
Three-dimensional power Doppler ultrasonography provides definite diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma in a real-time, non-invasive manner under certain conditions.
Our findings suggest that household crowding places young children at risk of acute lower respiratory infection but may protect against asthma. This result is consistent with the hygiene hypothesis.
This result may be explained by the fact that cancer is a multifactoral disease due to several interacting factors that might change from one population to another.
To sum up, in our collective, serologic testing for rubella, toxoplasmosis and hepatitis B is carried out in almost all pregnant women. The high rate of women not screened for HIV infection clearly contradicts the recommendations of the Federal Office of Public Health and calls for increased education of physicians.
The authors conclude that all penetrating colon injuries in the civilian population should be primarily repaired.
Low body temperature is strongly and independently associated with 30-day mortality in hip fracture patients.
IUGR fetuses showed echocardiographic and biochemical signs of cardiac dysfunction. Pre-eclampsia per se does not influence cardiac function in IUGR fetuses.
These results show that different types of anxiety symptoms have differing relations with pain coping responses. Cognitive anxiety symptoms may interfere with coping, whereas physiological anxiety symptoms may enhance coping. Possible mechanisms and implications are discussed.
Prescribing physicians and their older patients might benefit from discussing the pros and cons of antidepressants (including the additional risk factors with this age group) and the alternatives. If prescription does occur, careful monitoring to avoid unnecessary, potentially damaging, long-term use is recommended.
(1) BNP and echocardiographic TEI and TDI became available methods for the follow-up of right ventricular disfunction, and annual MRI is recommended. (2) Conversion of Senning to anatomic repair is considerable in selected young patients because the capacity of myocardium to respond to pressure overload decreasing with age. In older children and adults very close follow-up is necessary using biomarkers, echocardiography and MRI to decide the correct time of heart transplantation.
Intramyometrial abscesses can masquerade as degenerating fibroids and, even with microorganisms, can exist without overt signs or symptoms of an active infection.
Alcohol-arousal associations and other implicit cognitions (attentional bias, approach associations) are not positively related to individual differences in the sensitivity to alcohol's activating effects, at least not in the present sample consisting primarily of family history-negative heavy drinkers.
Male dimensions concerning the wide were significantly larger when compared with females. Regarding the PCA at the medial and lateral column, we found significant difference for lateral PCA concerning the gender. Overall, study results demonstrated an angle of 148.25° ± 6.83 for the medial PCA and 156.07° ± 7.00 for the lateral PCA.
Isolated findings of pneumomediastinum on screening chest x-ray or CT following blunt trauma is a poor predictor of an aerodigestive injury. Highly selective workup in this clinical setting is warranted.
Endoscopic placement of a self-expanding metallic stent is a simple, effective means of palliation for patients with malignant gastroduodenal obstruction.
Cross-sectional cartilage volume measurement independently predicts cartilage volume loss over 10 years and can be used to identify fast progressors in clinical trials. Radiographic JSN and osteophytes on the other hand are a reflection of other co-pathologies assessed on MRI and do not independently predict cartilage volume loss over 10 years.
PH in hemodialysis patients is associated with parameters of volume overload that sheds light on its pathophysiology. Mortality is higher in hemodialysis patients with PH and the low albumin level can explain this association.
Coagulopathic critically ill surgical patients remain at significant risk for VTE. Unfortunately, chemical VTE prophylaxis does not seem to decrease this risk. Further research is warranted to investigate the nature of this increased risk of VTE and the reason chemical VTE prophylaxis has no benefit.
These findings support the use of HFT normative values regardless of the two head positions investigated in the present study.
Breast-feeding is associated with a lowering of later blood pressure in children born at term. If the association is causal, the wider promotion of breast-feeding is a potential component of the public health strategy to reduce population levels of blood pressure.
Although the AJCC staging for patients with stage IV colorectal cancer reflected the prognosis, patients with peritoneum-only metastases should be classified as stage IVA. The prognostic scoring system using eight independent factors is useful in predicting the survival of patients with stage IV colorectal cancer.
The network meta-analysis revealed no significant differences among eight types of BB treatments but did provide a ranking. BB treatments could significantly reduce the occurrence of post-CABG AF. Insufficient evidence was available to show that one BB treatment was more effective than the others were. According to our network meta-analysis, bisoprolol and landiolol+bisoprolol are better alternatives compared with the other treatments.
Women with migraine are more likely to have muscular and articular TMD, suggesting that both disorders might be clinically associated, which demonstrate the importance of physical therapy assessment in the multidisciplinary team.
Patients who are younger, male, nonsmoking, and without multivessel coronary or noncardiac vascular disease are most likely to have higher DA with EECP. Patients with higher DA tended to have a greater reduction in angina class at 6-month follow-up compared with those with lower DA ratios. There is evidence that higher DA ratios are associated with improved short- or long-term clinical outcomes, suggesting that clinical benefit from EECP is associated with the magnitude of DA.
I propose a new formulation of death that identifies consciousness as the most important function of the organism, because it provides the essential human attributes and the highest level of control within the hierarchy of integrating functions of the organism
The prognostic role of HR HPV infection in oropharyngeal oncology, with its potential clinical applications, underscores the need for a consensus on the most appropriate detection methods. The present results suggest that viral mRNA detection could be the standard for fresh samples, whereas DNA detection could be routinely used in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded samples.
The MT1-MMP-positive cells may remodel the gubernaculum for eversion and provide the collagenolysis necessary for migration, like an icebreaking ship, through the IFP, which matures to permit migration through collagen-rich tissue. Disruption of these processes may cause cryptorchidism.
The present results are consistent with the "hygiene hypothesis," according to which early exposure to infections provides protection against asthma. The policy implications of our findings are unclear given that risk factors for asthma protect against serious childhood diseases in developing countries.
Clinicopathologic factors, including the histologic type, the clinical T stage, and abdominal N stage, may affect the outcome of TS and LS lymph node staging in esophageal cancer patients. This clinicopathologic impact may play a role for the selection of candidates for TS and LS staging, and also allows surgeons to focus their attention on the most likely high-yield biopsy targets.
Couple's concordant joint decision making, reflecting the concept of equalitarian power structure, appeared to be a significant analytic category. Policy makers in the field of family planning may promote community-based outreach programs and communication campaigns for family planning focusing on egalitarian gender roles in the household.
Although prophylaxis with low-dose LMWH during pregnancy and postpartum proved to be safe, the risk of pregnancy-related VTE is considerable in women with a high risk of VTE. VTE prophylaxis with low-dose LMWH may not be sufficiently effective in these women.
Osteoporosis may be under-recognized in men until the condition is at an advanced stage. A form of gender bias may exist in recognition and treatment (or referral for treatment) of osteoporosis in men.
We found associations between various factors suggested by the hygiene hypothesis and asthma, and very low rates of prevalence of asthma and atopic diseases both in Sanliurfa in comparison with the more developed western regions and in the peripheral slum areas. The hygiene hypothesis is helpful in explaining these observations.
Polymorphism at position -174 within the promoter region of the IL-6 gene may be an important risk factor for cardiac transplant related coronary vasculopathy. This may improve patient selection and allow tailored immunosuppressive treatment.
Only a few patients used professional care. They were more likely to require informal care during the waiting time. A longer waiting time did not result in a higher utilization rate before admission for treatment.
Based on our results, we concluded that dental fluorosis is not now a crucial epidemiological problem for the population studied in Curitiba. Any initiatives to control fluorosis should take into account the population's perception of the problem. Nevertheless, it is still extremely important to monitor the levels of fluoride in drinking water.
A low referral rate is closely connetected with the extent of the general practitioners' professional experience and specialist training. Investing in specialist training and continuing medical education seems to be the best way to reduce high referral rates.
To evaluate the postoperative prognosis of AEJ within the stomach, AEJ II and AEJ III should be considered a part of gastric cancer irrespective of EGJ involvement.
Finding Candida or Trichomonas organisms on a Pap smear is a reliable indicator of vaginitis associated with these organisms. Finding organisms consistent with a shift in vaginal flora (BV) on Pap smear did not correlate with clinical indicators of vaginitis.
A joint preventive and non-invasive therapeutic approach appears to be cost-effective in patients at medium and high risk of developing dental caries when compared to the standard care provided by private dental practice.
Differences in nebulizers performance influence therapeutic effects and tobramicyn deposition in the lower airways.
Standard surgery with at least D1 + LN dissection must be recommended for patients who proved to have risk factors for LN metastasis after ER, because the potential of skip metastasis is not negligible. Nevertheless, the minimal LN dissection, such as sentinel basin dissection, might be applied cautiously in patients with small-sized tumors after ER.
Findings indicate that gender socialization may partly explain gender differences in the alcohol-related problems reported.
CT of detailed acrylic casts allowed complex intrahepatic vascular relationships to be investigated and compared with previous studies. Improving understanding of the intrahepatic vascular supply facilitates interpretation of advanced images in clinical patients, the planning and performance of surgical procedures, and may facilitate interventional vascular procedures, such as intravenous embolization of portosystemic shunts. Functional division of the canine liver similar to human models is possible. The left lateral and right medial lobes can be consistently divided into surgically resectable functional areas and partial lobectomies can be performed following a functional model; further study in clinically affected animals would be required to investigate the relevance of this functional model in the dog.
Perioperative risk factors and procedure type impact postoperative morbidity and mortality differently in ES versus NES. Instead of using the same risk-adjustment model for both ES and NES, as currently practiced, our findings strongly suggest the need to benchmark emergent and elective surgeries separately.
A self-administered cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) using a video format appears to be a valuable treatment option, but face-to-face sessions remain the optimal format for administering CBT-I efficaciously in patients with breast cancer. Self-help interventions for insomnia may constitute an appropriate entry level as part of a stepped care model.
To replace physicians with GTW may facilitate the learning process and may also help medical students improve their communicative skills. Using GTW will hopefully further improve students' basic medical examination techniques and physician-patient relationships.
A stroke belt of high stroke incidence exists in 9 provincial regions of north and west China. The stroke belt may be caused, at least in part, by a higher population prevalence of hypertension and excess body weight. Lowering blood pressure and body weight in the stroke belt may reduce the geographic disparity in stroke risk and incidence in China.
Our study reveals a loss of retinal nerve fibers in the temporal quadrant in PD, which is typically susceptible in mitochondrial optic neuropathies.
The results indicate substantial similarity between online and offline social behavior and identify avenues for future research on the possible use of Facebook to compensate for difficulty in everyday interactions.
Hypertension in middle-aged men may negatively modify vision-associated neuronal function.
The intradecidual sign does not appear to be sensitive or specific in diagnosis of an early intrauterine pregnancy. When an intrauterine fluid collection is present without an embryo or yolk sac (with positive pregnancy test results), a follow-up sonogram should be obtained unless contraindicated clinically.
The use of an overtube in push-enteroscopy is advantageous with respect to the depth of insertion (significant difference between group T and NT in counted folds and the insertion depth in centimeters). At this time, this gain of insertion length did not result in a higher rate of pathological findings. Nevertheless, we would recommend the use of an overtube in performing push-type enteroscopy in order to increase the number of pathological findings.
The discordance between the clinical presentation and the imaging findings resulted in a challenging situation regarding the decision of whether to allow the player to train and compete. In addition, existing muscle injury grading systems do not seem to cover the full range of injuries seen in clinical practice.
These findings demonstrate relationships between patterns of multiple health behaviors and use of recommended cancer-screening tests, even when accounting for factors known to influence test use. This suggests potential for addressing cancer screening in the context of multiple behavior change interventions once barriers to health care access are removed.
Splanchnic ischemia (intramucosal pH,<7.3) occurs commonly in isolated neurotrauma, with a statistically nonsignificant trend toward development of mucosal ischemia with decreased cerebral perfusion.
This study provides further evidence for the consistency and reliability of the stopwatch-assessed duration of erection as an efficacy end point for ED treatments, with "duration of erection leading to successful intercourse" showing better properties than duration at any attempt.
Dyschromatopsia occurs frequently in MS patients. It may be associated with a worse disease status and possibly serve as a marker for the detection of subclinical disease progression since it was detected even in the absence of ON. It correlated with thinner peripapillary RNFL thickness and inferior cognitive performance.
Although leptin is strongly correlated with obesity and insulin, we could not show that it is independently associated with prognosis in early-stage breast cancer. Because we cannot rule out modest prognostic effects, we recommend additional research to explore this potential association, particularly in postmenopausal women.
Publicly reported quality data pertaining to patients with stroke are incomplete, confusing, and inaccurate. Without further improvements and a better understanding of the needs and limitations of the many stakeholders, targeted transparency policies for stroke care may lead to worse quality and large economic losses.
OPG cannot be used to differentiate between healthy subjects with low versus high levels of coronary calcifications. In patients with suspected AP a single OPG measurement is of limited use in the diagnosis of CAD.
Antibiotic prophylaxis is not mandatory, after the insertion of levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system in order to decrease the risk of pelvic inflammatory disease.
TEE should be encouraged in patients undergoing liver resection, not only for hemodynamic monitoring, but also for its ability to provide information about the anatomy of the liver, its vessels, and inferior vena cava patency.
The expected pregnancy rate calculated per embryo available on day 2 of cultivation was similar in both groups (23.8 versus 22.2%) and it was not affected by oocyte culture to the blastocyst stage.
This study revealed that 66.9% of PBC cases could be diagnosed based on trimmed bile ducts alone. Bile duct injury similar to that in PBC could be encountered in AIH.
We found no evidence that hospital wards with a relatively short mean LOS had higher, or lower, patient satisfaction than hospital wards with a relatively long LOS, with the exception of pulmonology.
The data obtained from this four-week study indicate that TUBES Gastro treatment was effective and well tolerated in reducing the symptomatology of patients affected by functional dysmotility-like and reflux-like dyspepsia.
Much of the dramatic increase in the number of applicants to North American integrated thoracic residency programs has been driven by experienced international graduates. The caliber of applicants is strong, but efforts are needed to increase the appeal of thoracic surgery training to North American medical students if the goals of integrated programs are to be realized.
The results of the present study show that a poorer self-rated health is a predictor for dropout, not only from the eldercare two years after qualification, but from the labour market as a whole. However, the results were less consistent regarding the predictive effect of a detrimental lifestyle on dropout.
Liaison psychiatry must ensure that psychological skills are part of the treatment of all physical disorders.
ICD-9-CM complications were underreported among diskectomy patients, especially at hospitals with low risk-adjusted complication rates. The validity of using coded complications to compare provider performance is questionable, even with careful efforts to identify serious events, although these results must be confirmed using more recent data.
The use of small aortic valve prostheses in octogenarians does not adversely affect the incidence of early or late mortality or cardiac events.
HIV infection is associated with elevated IL-6, sCD14, and D-dimer, which are in turn associated with mortality. Baseline measures of these biomarkers partially mediate excess mortality risk among HIV+ versus uninfected people.
Endocytosis of FITC-albumin is ATP-dependent in OK cells, but the cells are very glycolytic and therefore represent a poor metabolic model of the PT. Rotenone has toxic extra-mitochondrial structural effects.
Modic changes did not influence the clinical course of back pain and were not prognostic factors for recovery. Education was strongly associated with recovery.
Incidence rates of invasive vulvar cancer have increased in the United States during the last three decades. The reasons for this increase are unknown.
Vaccination with the quadrivalent HPV vaccine after treatment may be considered in preventing recurrence of CIN2-3.
Parents have unmet information needs related to children's anesthetic care. Written information may improve parent knowledge and enhance satisfaction, but the setting and timing of information delivery are also important to consider.
In this nutritional supplementation trial in an undernourished population, we were unable to confirm relative leg length as a biomarker of childhood nutrition. Alternative explanations may underlie the reported associations between childhood conditions and relative leg length.
This study confirms and quantifies the utility of using DNA sequences from different parts of the genome in phylogenetic studies to avoid possible bias in the sampling. It shows that 11-18 loci are enough to get the dominant history in this group of Solanum, but more loci would be needed to discern the distribution of gene genealogies in more depth, and thus detect which mechanism most likely shaped the discordance.
The status of dermal fillers as class III medical devices, and the process of their approval and marketing in the EU need to be seriously reconsidered to avoid unnecessary and serious adverse reactions.
The addition of toluidine blue increased the diagnostic accuracy of the trainee, and we encourage the use and teaching of this stain in Mohs surgery.
This study shows the efficacy of training programme designed to improve residents' BBN skills. The way residents break bad news may thus be improved.
Perinephric stranding, a common secondary sign in adults with ureteral calculi, occurs less frequently in children than other reported secondary signs.
The estimated prevalence rates in the two different sample survey areas were comparable, indicating that the repeated prevalence surveys in the study area did not influence the observed decline in TB disease prevalence.
Carotid disease is associated with an increased risk of stroke post cardiac surgery. Staged carotid intervention cannot be justified based on these results. Increased risk of stroke post cardiac surgery in patients with significant carotid disease needs to be accepted, as the risk of stroke and MI during carotid intervention pre cardiac surgery is significantly higher.
Total medication burden increases as time to death shortens, due to continuation of medications for CMCs, and addition of medications for symptom control. There is a need for research to demonstrate the impact of polypharmacy at the end of life, in order to formulate a framework to guide practice.
Patients with borderline epithelial tumors who had full surgical staging procedure do not have survival advantage over those who had no lymph node evaluation and yet were patients with malignant ovarian tumors.
SA of tibial vessel occlusions is a valuable treatment of CLI. Technical failures do not preclude conventional surgery when there is a valuable outflow. Complications may often be treated medically or by endovascular procedures. Results have to be confirmed by long-term follow up. Both techniques should be considered as complementary techniques in the management of CLI.
Thyroid surgery can safely be performed as a minimally invasive procedure. Minimal access thyroid surgery is therefore a feasible option for selected patients. The question remains to be answered as to whether this surgical approach is appropriate treatment for nodular thyroid disease.
Good initial results tend to remain stable over time and about two-thirds of patients are satisfied after MAS implantation.
This study provides new knowledge about young adults' unmet need. Policies to encourage young adults' appropriate use of healthcare services such as access to a regular primary care provider may help reduce the unmet needs. Patterns of inadequate primary care use established in young adulthood may be perpetuated in later life, which could foretell undesirable consequences for the health of the population.
Pulmonary vein isolation alone may be adequate treatment for patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation undergoing mitral valve surgery, particularly when it is of short duration. A randomized trial is necessary to examine this strategy, especially in patients with longer duration of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
On March 5, 2007, an acute-onset, sea level rise event resulting in coastal erosion, shoreline inundation, and saltwater intrusion occurred in two coral atoll islands of Micronesia. The findings of this study suggest that highly vulnerable populations of both islands experienced disastrous losses involving crop productivity and freshwater sources. These findings reveal the need for effective public health research and sustainable interventions that will monitor and shape the health of small island populations predicted to be at high risk for adverse health effects due to climate change.
In this high-risk cohort, 3 postoperative SWI cases were anticipated but may have been mitigated by NPWT. This is an easily applied and well-tolerated therapy and may stimulate more effective wound healing. Among patients with increased SWI risk, strong consideration should be given to NPWT as a form of "well wound" therapy.
The vagal effect of ATP may identify the subgroup of patients at high risk of severe cardioinhibitory response of vagal origin who likely will benefit from pacemaker therapy. This fast, uncomplicated test should be considered for further use in screening patients with vasovagal syndrome.
The subjective feeling of increased rescuer fatigue with the CPREzy can, at least in part, be attributed to the extra work required for compressing the spring of the CPREzy. Improved accuracy in chest compression depth is likely to be another, more significant, factor in rescuer fatigue.
Long-term GH treatment was associated with changes in weight status, which were beneficial for underweight and obese children independent of the indication for GH. However, the increase in BMI-SDS in normal weight children treated with GH needs to be investigated in future prospective longitudinal studies to analyse whether this represents an increase of fat mass, lean body mass or both.
Few people with bipolar disorders had access to psychosocial treatments. Even in a well-developed system of community care, offer of psychosocial interventions for bipolar disorders is inadequate. This issue should be a target for future research on dissemination and implementation strategies.
Evidence from these analyses supports current literature refuting the notion of relatively poorer neuropsychological functioning associated with the APOE-epsilon4 genotype among young adult participants shortly following mild or moderate brain injury. Neuropsychological performance differences by APOE genotype following TBI are discussed in terms of the importance of considering severity of injury, timing of postinjury assessment and possible neurocognitive compensatory mechanisms.
There was no evidence that commercial cola beverages sweetened with either sucrose or HFCS have significantly different effects on hunger, satiety, or short-term energy intakes.
Newly marketed generic statins in Korea resulted in an expanding market by substantially increasing the number of new patients with clinics and hospitals appreciably using newly marketed generics. However lower doses of statins were prescribed. Policy makers do recognize that generic availability can save costs so should be encouraged. However, this is a concern when generic availability appreciably expands the market, potentially increasing the financial burden. This needs to be addressed. Additionally in Korea, the quality of prescribing should be monitored, especially focusing on clinics and secondary hospitals.
Our findings suggest that associations between perceived neighborhood challenges and PA are shaped by the context in which the individual lives. Our study provides empirical evidence that individual perceptions and observed neighborhood characteristics are joint contributors to PA and suggest the need for continued research to characterize the complexity of individual and contextual factors that contribute to PA.
Change in the elastic modulus of the adhesive layer, hybrid layer, and dentin due to water storage has an effect on stresses in root-filled premolar models. The location and the level of the stresses differed depending on the adhesive used.
Differences detected in snack food intake between normal-weight children and children at risk of overweight could explain in part the relationship between food choices and risk of overweight. Studies of dietary differences in conjunction with body weight would benefit from considering children at risk of overweight and normal-weight children, rather than children with excess weight only.
In this study, dietetic treatment in older, undernourished, community-dwelling individuals was not cost-effective compared with usual care.
Pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of abdominal hernia recurrence after adjusting for confounding factors. The magnitude of this association is likely underestimated, given that the risk of recurrence was defined as reoperation, which captures only the most clinically significant group of recurrences. This information will facilitate counseling for reproductive-aged women planning elective ventral or incisional hernia repair. The risk of recurrence and subsequent reoperation should be balanced against the risk of incarceration and emergent surgery during pregnancy. As such, the desire for future pregnancy and/or contraception should be considered when planning asymptomatic hernia repair for women of reproductive age.
Among men, periods of homeless shelter use are associated with higher mortality. There are three reasons why this finding does not necessarily mean that homelessness itself increases the risk of death. First, the hazard of death associated with shelter use compared to non-shelter use may be significantly different from that associated with homelessness compared to non-homelessness. Second, the association between shelter use and risk of death may be confounded by other variables such as alcohol and drug use. Finally, because the mechanism and time-course of the putative effect of homelessness on health is uncertain, appropriate modelling of the time-dependent covariate is difficult to ensure. Further research into the possible adverse effects of homelessness on health is needed and would have important implications for public policy.
Plastic-assisted vulvectomy closure was more often utilized in cases involving past radiation therapy and larger tumors. Plastic-assisted closure significantly increased the frequency of adequate margins in tumors≥3 cm and did not impact complications.
Our findings suggest that VCI is not associated with the development of TTTS but increases the risk of adverse outcomes. Both VCI and TTTS independently increase the prevalence of IUFD and lower GA at birth in a similar way, showing that VCI is an important indicator of adverse perinatal outcome in monochorionic twins.
The performance of the OMRON-RX-I wrist oscillometer does not fulfill the minimum criteria of AAMI and BHS compared with mercury standard in the ED triage setting.
These data suggest that absence seizures are not truly "generalized," with immediate global cortical involvement, but rather involve selective cortical networks, including orbital frontal and mesial frontal regions, in the propagation of ictal discharges.
Microlesion of left brain regions may contribute to subtle cognitive impairment following STN-DBS in PD.
The distribution of contraceptive methods used was similar among the three age groups, but the absence of contraception was most frequent in the adolescent group. The adolescents we assessed, being married and having delivered at least once, are a highly selected group and not representative of adolescents in general. Nevertheless, their contraceptive choices did not differ from those of older women. The incidence of TOPs among them was quite high. Minimization of the frequent neglect of application of contraceptive measures by adolescents requires improvement of family planning services for this age group.
Genetic analysis of the coral genus Stylophora reveals species boundaries that are not congruent with morphological traits. Of the four hypotheses that may explain such discrepancy (phenotypic plasticity, morphological stasis, morphological convergence, and interspecific hybridization), the first two appear likely to play a role but the fourth one is rejected since mitochondrial and nuclear markers yield congruent species delimitations. The position of the root in our molecular phylogenies suggests that the center of origin of Stylophora is located in the western Indian Ocean, which probably explains why this genus presents a higher biodiversity in the westernmost part of its area of distribution than in the "Coral Triangle".
Despite differences in their components, the two HMEFs that were tested achieved similar performances in terms of humidification and heating of inspired gases. Only one episode of endotracheal tube occlusion was detected, and very few patients (three in each group) had to be switched to an active heated humidifier. No difference was observed either in the rate of tracheal colonization or of ventilator-associated pneumonia. These data show that the Humid-Vent Filter Light and the Clear ThermAl HMEFs are suited for use with ICU patients.
The introduction of a protocol for the diagnostic work-up of patients with obstructive jaundice may reduce unnecessary investigations and diagnostic omissions by half. Because local expertise of some of the procedures seems to be significantly less than reported elsewhere it may be necessary to modify the protocol to better fit local circumstances.
The unusual, possibly fortuitous association of EE and BE, two conditions differing in etiopathogenesis, clinical and pathological features, calls for a correct diagnosis to offer suitable treatment and prognosis.
A better screen for obtaining blood cultures in this SICU was not identified. If antibiotics are begun empirically before the results of blood cultures are known, the results of other body fluid cultures can be used to guide therapy initially. However, the data obtained from positive blood cultures was often helpful in changing empirical therapy. Therefore, blood cultures remain important diagnostic tools.
Long-term exposure to 100 μT and 500 μT ELF-MF did not affect oxidative or antioxidative processes, lipid peroxidation, or reproductive components such as sperm count and morphology in testes tissue of rats. However, long-term exposure to 500 μT ELF-MF did affect active-caspase-3 activity, which is a well-known apoptotic indicator.
Routine articulation of study models for all orthodontic patients is not supported by the results of this study. Articulation of the study models did not affect the treatment planning decisions in a meaningful manner. Further work with selected samples is required to determine if articulation is helpful for specific malocclusions.
Reimplantation valve-sparing aortic root replacement in patients greater than 60 years old can be performed with satisfactory perioperative and midterm results. Long-term results are needed to define the durability of this technique and its role in this subset of patients.
Older age appears to influence attitudes towards pain and analgesia. Factors such as poorer knowledge about taking analgesia, reluctance to communicate with medical staff, poorer performance status, and being more likely to live alone suggest that older patients may require greater support in the management of their cancer pain than younger patients. Targeted interventions are needed to test this proposition.
Offering prenatal screening seems to temporarily increase attachment. However, this difference is very small. Attachment is not influenced by whether a blood screening or an ultrasound screening is performed.
We have concluded that mobile telephones have no adverse effects on the functions of types of ICD assessed in the study.
The probability of successfully reducing LDL cholesterol with dietary therapy can be predicted by baseline LDL cholesterol level, BMI and saturated fat intake, as well as by the response to dietary changes within six weeks of therapy.
The combination of CE-MRA und TOF-MRA is also an appropriate alternative to DSA concerning the evaluation of residual or recurrent aneurysms in the crucial first follow-up.
Radiomics is able to identify early effects of changed gene expression combined with radiation treatment in tumors with similar volumes which are not visible to human eye.
LapDP has not been adopted widely for PDAC. The early and long-term results of LapDP as currently practiced are as good as those of OpenDP. The next step in the evaluation of LapDP should be a randomized controlled trial (RCT), but such a trial is likely to suffer from insufficient recruitment.
The changes observed by TEG demonstrated that tramadol impairs hemostasis in a concentration-dependent manner in the whole blood of women with gynecologic malignancies in vitro.
The results suggest that students need a minimum level of structure in order to profit from problem-based instruction. This structure can be internally provided through prior knowledge available for understanding the new subjects, or offered by the environment in the form of cues of what is relevant and what should be the focus of the activities. If prior knowledge falls short, or if the environment lacks structure, students will turn to their tutors for help and direction. Under those conditions, students who are guided by a subject-matter expert tutor may benefit more than students guided by a non-expert staff tutor or by a student tutor. These findings may explain the widely divergent results of tutor-expertise research.
Census tract-derived measures of segregation are highly correlated with recently introduced spatial segregation measures, but the residual differences among measures are not uniform for all areas. Use of surface-density-derived measures provides researchers with tools to further explore the spatial relationships between segregation and health disparities.
Standard Goldmann applanation tonometry does not affect the Orbscan CCT values. Measurement of CCT for the adjustment of true IOP can be carried out either before or after Goldmann tonometry.
WM training produces long-lasting beneficial effects which are strongly pronounced in patients with acquired brain injuries. This finding supports the application of WM training in clinical settings. To determine optimal training conditions, future studies must systematically investigate the characteristics of interventions as they are at present inevitably confounded.
A high proportion of young athletes exhibit conventional criteria for LVNC highlighting the non-specific nature of current diagnostic criteria if applied to elite athletic populations. Further assessment of such athletes should be confined to the small minority that demonstrate low indices of systolic function and marked repolarisation changes.
Transfusion and reoperation for bleeding both contribute to postoperative mortality and morbidity. Technical reasons are at the root of most bleeding, emphasizing a major focus for process improvement to minimize need for reoperation and blood use.
These data suggest that impaired insight in anorexia nervosa is an additive outcome of true unawareness and disagreement.
When used in strictly aseptic conditions, intraarticular steroid injection of the hip did not increase the risk of infection in patients subsequently undergoing THA.
Women with Turner syndrome constitute a group at higher cardiovascular risk. This group of women requires effective preventative medicine from the earliest age.
The workload questionnaires are an effective tool for quantifying intraoperative workload across the surgical team to ensure mental and physical demands do not exceed thresholds where performance may decrease and injury risk increase. This tool has the potential to measure the safety of current procedures and drive design of workload interventions.
it does not exist statistically significant correlation between the thickness of the sphincters and its function in a healthy subjects homogeneous group, neither in 2 groups according to age.
There was no evidence that this on-road motorcycle rider coaching program reduced the risk of crash, and we found an increase in crash-related risk factors.
These outcomes do not support the prevailing surgical recommendation and dogma that vagotomy should always be accompanied by a drainage procedure. Furthermore, these outcomes would suggest that it is misleading to ascribe inadvertent vagotomy as the cause of the bloating, diarrhea, and delayed gastric emptying that may occasionally be reported by patients after difficult esophageal dissections.
Mild anxiety and depression was found frequently among inmates on preventive detention. Likewise, the majority of the inmates had a history of alcohol and drug abuse. Mood disorders and substance abuse may enhance recidivism, so rehabilitation programs should be tailored to address these problems.
Male and female GPs prescribe analgesics in a similar manner. However, male GPs prescribe more antineuropathic pain drugs, but fewer SySADOA.
A commercially available negative pressure device for temporary abdominal closure had significantly greater success with ultimate closure after open abdomen management compared with the Barker technique. The added cost of the device is offset by improved patient results and savings from successful closure.
Pre-operative chemotherapy was associated with a trend toward increased morbidity among patients undergoing a major hepatic resection. Receipt of pre-operative chemotherapy was associated with neither an advantage nor disadvantage in terms of long-term survival.
Although the drop of PaO2 was comparable, stair-climbing resulted in more prolonged hyperinflation of the lungs, higher blood lactate production and more dyspnea than walking. The walking distance was not related to the time needed to manage stair-climbing. Therefore, pathophysiological changes during the 6-min walking test do not anticipate those during stair-climbing in patients with severe COPD.
This study shows a significant prognostic value of early post-infarction ischaemia detected by Holter monitoring and an exercise test. Distant, painful ST-SD greater than 3 mm were more powerful determinants of poor prognosis than others. Electrode placement during Holter monitoring appears to be very important, particularly in post-infarction patients.
There is a high prevalence of AATD affected subjects and carriers in a group of patients with premature COPD. The use of integrative laboratory algorithm does not improve the effectiveness of AATD detection in comparison with the screening based on AAT concentration alone.
Altered plasma concentrations of extracellular matrix remodeling proteolytic enzymes, matrix metalloproteinase 9, and urokinase plasminogen activator were found to be associated with abnormal labor and delivery outcomes. This finding may provide a useful predictor of abnormal obstetric outcomes.
Compared to the Dmax of the initial plan, daily IGRT had the smallest increase in dose. Furthermore, daily IGRT had the lowest proportion of fractions and the smallest volumes affected by a dose that was higher than the planned dose. For patients treated with doses close to the tolerance dose of the spinal cord, we recommend daily IGRT. For all other cases, twice weekly IGRT is sufficient.
Our findings provided deeper insight into the mode of action of natalizumab, with possible implications for understanding both the effects of natalizumab on MS activity and its specific adverse event profile.
On an intention to treat basis, only 2/14 patients improved and required no further intervention. Whilst this diet cannot be recommended routinely, the improvement seen in some patients raises questions about the role of OAS in patients with OFG.
The patients with a greater percentage of missed preoperative appointments had a lower postoperative %EWL at 1 year after gastric banding but not after gastric bypass. This information could prove useful during patient selection or when counseling patients about the type of bariatric surgery to pursue.
Drinking low to moderate amounts of alcohol may delay age-associated cognitive decline in older women (including slowing deterioration in global cognitive function), but these apparent benefits were not clearly seen in older men.
Contrary to expectations, the growth of managed health care has not been associated with a reduction in the length of office visits. The observed trends cannot be explained by increases in physicians' availability, shifts in the distribution of physicians according to sex, or changes in the complexity of the case mix.
In NBS infants with CF, CT changes were very mild at 1 year, and assessment of air trapping was the only reproducible outcome. CT is thus of questionable value in infants of this age, unless an improved scoring system for use in mild CF disease can be developed.
To build new decision support systems based on practice guidelines and taking into account users preferences, we do not so much advocate new technological solutions but rather suggest that technology is not enough to ensure successful adoption by the users, the integration into practice workflow, and consequently, the realisation of improved health care outcomes.
Breast cancer risk associated with recent alcohol consumption was not apparent in AA women, while early age drinking seemed to decrease risk. This is the first investigation on recent and lifetime drinking in subgroups and drinking during different age periods in AA women. If findings are replicated, racial differences in biological pathways involving alcohol and its metabolites should be explored.
Delayed prescriptions are a safe and effective means of reducing antibiotic consumption in patients with the common cold. Clarification of patient expectations for antibiotics may result in a lower prescription rate. When the patient demands a prescription, delaying its delivery has the potential to provide gentle education.
Multivariate analysis demonstrated that, although deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy seemed to correlate with more advanced disease, only Gleason sum and pathological T stage reached statistical significance when evaluated against time to treatment failure. A high proliferative index added little above the more traditional prognostic indicators of Gleason score, pathological stage and ploidy. Therefore, we question the value of proliferative index as a prognostic indicator using the aforementioned methodology in prostate cancer.
Administering some but not all vaccine doses at visits during ages 2-8 months impairs immunization coverage through age 2 years.
In accidents with axial load shift, helmets weighing more than 1,500 grams increase the risk of a basal skull fracture. Therefore high-weight helmets should be avoided.
The results of this study suggest that the gatekeeping changes did lead to increases in utilization of mental health care, as hypothesized. At the same time, the magnitude of the increase in access and mean number of visits that we found was relatively modest. This suggests that while the change from face-to-face specialty gatekeeping to call-center intake does increase utilization, it is unlikely to overwhelm a system with new demand or create huge cost increases.
Our results indicate that HbA1c is not associated with risk for various types of cerebrovascular lesions in ischemic stroke patients. The negative association between age and HbA1c in diabetic patients should be further investigated.
A direct IADL measure for dementia patients is able to detect small differences between MCI and NC and cross-sectionally and longitudinally, but does not distinguish between groups.
The analysis of this review suggests that there is an overall survival benefit with combined preoperative radiotherapy plus radical surgery compared with radical radiotherapy plus salvage cystectomy in patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer. However, it must be considered that only three trials were included for analysis, the patient numbers were small and that many patients did not receive the treatment they were randomised to. It must also be noted that many improvements in radiotherapy and surgery have taken place since the initiation of these trials; therefore, the data may not be readily extrapolated to modern practice. Ideally, a new trial comparing modern bladder-sparing therapy with the latest surgical approach to this disease is required.
HU use is high among hospitalized children with SCD. However, HU is not utilized by many children with clinically severe SCD. These results support that HU be considered in children with SCD to prevent hospitalization rather than as a treatment to improve hospitalization outcomes.
The study shows that relative risk estimates for the association between H. pylori and gastric cancer risk are to some extent determined by the diagnostic method used to detect H. pylori infection.
Few of the differences between adult males and females in facial changes are caused by pregnancies or the use of oral contraceptives.
Few responding ACP associates indicated awareness of the ACP guidelines on ethics. Physicians in training nevertheless reported acting according to the presented guidelines most of the time, although nearly all respondents acted outside a guideline at least once, and some did so many times. Reported behaviors were sometimes inconsistent with consensus ethical standards that apply to internists. Physicians in training need to know more about ethical standards that apply to their own practice and should be aware when their actions deviate from ethical norms. Before acting outside guidelines on ethics, trainees should discuss their conflicts with others, such as attending physicians, clinical ethicists, or hospital ethics committees.
We conclude that spousal collaboration may offer a compensatory strategy to cope with individual aging-related losses.
Different factors can be identified as predictive of outcome in a functional restoration program, but most of these factors were also shown to predict success for shorter control outpatient programs or of no treatment.
Sarcopenia, obesity and sarcopenic obesity did not worsen DFS, OS and complication rates after a partial liver resection for CRLM.
The use of a large amount (240 g) of oral barium tracer with the colonic preparation improves the ability of preliminary abdominal radiography to predict the adequacy of colonic cleansing.
hsCRP increases after revascularized STEMI, in accordance to the infarct size, in the first days. hsCRP is correlated with cardiovascular pronostic biomarkers. hsCRP could play an active role, and could be used as a pronostic biomarker after revascularized STEMI, which are usually considered as a low-risk population.
Use of the IMQ as an accurate screening measure in infants 'at risk' of developmental delay is supported. The low sensitivity of the IMQ for the comparison infants indicates a need for caution when considering its application for general population screening.
ESCAD patients with bypassable vessels to two or more regions of reversible ischemia can undergo safe CABG with acceptable hospital survival and mortality and morbidity. In higher risk ESCAD patients, who may poorly tolerate cardioplegic arrest, on-pump/beating-heart CABG may be an acceptable alternative associated with lower postoperative mortality and morbidity. Such a technique offers better myocardial and renal protection associated with lower postoperative complications.
Small oily fish consumption should be favored over other types of fish.
Pneumonia is an uncommon cause of infection in children with cancer hospitalized for fever and neutropenia. Therefore, the authors believe it is not necessary to obtain a chest radiograph in children with no respiratory abnormalities who are hospitalized for fever and neutropenia. [See editorial on pages 1009-10, this issue.]
Although MRCP is diagnostically useful in the perioperative management in some cases, its routine use in the DRG-era may not be justified due to the costs.
Age by itself should not be an absolute contraindication against renal transplantation. An estimated 5-year survival rate of 55% post-engraftment for an 80-year-old patient is in our opinion more than acceptable.
Anti-HCV prevalence rates among injectors in England and Wales, where comprehensive harm reduction programs exist, are lower than rates in other industrialized countries.
Of infants who underwent tracheostomy during the initial hospitalization after birth, 21% died. On adjusted analysis, tracheostomy timing was not independently associated with outcomes.
Personal risk information indicating increased obesity risk may increase motivation to eat healthily, regardless of whether the risk is described as genetic or non-genetic or as acting through an eating-based or metabolism-based causal pathway.
The present findings suggest that latitude affects hyperthymic temperament, and ambient temperature might mediate this effect.
A foreign body or hypersensitivity reaction in the form of giant cells and lymphocytic cell infiltration is common after cochlear implantation and may be one possible cause of soft failure.
Outcomes after colonic injury in the setting of DCL were similar regardless of the surgical management strategy. Based on these findings, a strategy of diversion over anastomosis cannot be strongly recommended.
In our study, adherence to a strict follow-up program unfortunately proved to be ineffective for improving long-term survival for patients who underwent reoperation with curative intent.
Within the study group, no image distortion caused by fatty tissue that could be clinically relevant for SWL was observed.
Elective laparoscopic ventral hernia repair in senior citizens is safe and feasible in our experience. We believe that the decision to perform an elective hernia repair in this patient population should be based on the general condition of the patient rather than the patient's chronological age.
These data may support the hypothesized association between size of the orbital opening and adaptation to different climatic conditions, but only in males.
The findings suggest that providing forensic mental health nurses with a better understanding of serious mental illness and training them in a broader range of interventions, helps them to be more positive in their attitudes towards the clients that they work with and experience less negative effects of stress resulting from their caring role. The implications of this study for clinical practice and future research will be discussed.
Pediatric iatrogenic ureteral injuries are rare and may be repaired by both immediate and delayed techniques as circumstances demand. Standard techniques used in the adult population may be employed in children with the expectation of good long-term results.
The B/A ratio is significantly correlated with serum UB concentration in newborns ≥ 35 weeks of gestation. The B/A ratio, however, is underestimated when serum UB concentrations are>0.6 µg/dL.
These results do not provide evidence that women have a higher carotid artery stenting stroke and death rate compared with men. The potential differential periprocedural risk by sex will be prospectively addressed in the randomized phase of CREST.
Although pulmonary fibrosis patients show the poorest survival on lung transplant waiting lists, in other countries, patients with cystic fibrosis and bronchiectasis displayed the worst survival on the Iranian list probably due to their poor rehabilitation and sputum evacuation. We concluded that it is necessary for every center to evaluate the characteristics of its patient cohort to match the activity according to the needs.
The presence of bacterial vaginosis at 16-21⁶(/)⁷ weeks does not predict gestational age at birth in women at risk for recurrent preterm birth.
Left side RCC with tumor thrombus is not associated with worse prognosis than right-sided tumors (all tumor thrombi levels). Our data suggest that among RCC patients with advanced tumor thrombi (level III/IV), a left side thrombus may be associated with worse prognosis compared to a right side thrombus.
Our preliminary experiences suggest that the laparoscopic purse-string suture of internal inguinal opening of hernia sac could be a safe, effective, and reliable alternative for management of pediatric inguinal hernia.
Paternal infant care was inversely associated with breastfeeding during the first 6 months of life. An additional intervention study about the importance of breastfeeding that aims to educate fathers who tend to involve themselves in infant care is needed.
Topical calcipotriol may show promise in the treatment of actinic keratoses. More studies are needed to confirm its efficacy.
Obstruction of the eustachian tube orifice by adenoid tissue was associated with tympanograms suggestive of abnormal pressure in the middle ear. Future studies with a larger sample size are necessary to clarify this association.
NPCs had a disadvantage in access time to primary, secondary and tertiary medical care compared with a municipal center. NPCs, however, did not have a greater access disadvantage in comparison to adjacent rural communities for any type of medical facility. As such, future resource allocation policies in Japan need to redefine medically underserved communities.
This study suggests that pregnant women being physically active have less weight gain during pregnancy.
The results indicate different neuropsychological pathways related to 'positive family history of ADHD' and prenatal risks. Given a cross-validation in future studies, the results underscore the endophenotypic character of IC and DA in preschool ages.
The number of responders and nonresponders was similar in the antimicrobial- and nonantimicrobial-treated groups (p = NS), and no single antimicrobial medication demonstrated greater treatment effectiveness.
This pilot study showed that it is possible to use standardized evaluations tools, to simultaneously assess the relationship between preparedness elements and response performance measures. An experimental study including a group of hospitals, also using more comprehensive evaluation tools, should be done to evaluate the correlation between the level of preparedness and the response performance of a hospital, and the impact of hospital disaster planning, on the outcome of disasters victims.
Continuous monitoring of epidemiological determinants is essential to guide vaccination policy.
Our study shows that TKA revision is a viable option, still unpredictable, to improve the ROM in patients with prolonged stiffness after TKA. Although revision for stiffness is not always successful in terms of achieving functional range of motion, it could improve pain in presence of less than functional range of motion.
A low-intensity behavioral intervention in pregnancy can reduce 12-mo postpartum weight retention and improve dietary restraint and self-weighing in study completers. Future research is needed to test the long-term effects of more intensive behavioral interventions in pregnancy. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01117961.
While both boys and girls seem to be sensitive to peer influence, only girls appear to be sensitive to parental monitoring in regard to drunkenness. Stronger parental monitoring and weaker peer influence partially explain the lower prevalence of drunkenness among Roma adolescents, whereas the effects of these factors per level do not vary between Roma and non-Roma adolescents.
The results suggest that it is possible to measure functioning using a unidimensional construct based on ICF osteoarthritis core set categories of body functions and activity and participation in this population. However, omission of some categories and reduction in qualifier levels are necessary. Further studies are needed to determine whether better targeting is achieved, particularly during the pre-operative and during the sub-acute care period.
While child protection professionals considered child sexual abuse perpetrated by females to be a serious issue warranting intervention, a number of advocated decisions suggested that they did not consider female-perpetrated abuse to be as serious as male-perpetrated abuse. The implication is that victims of sexual abuse perpetrated by a woman may be less likely to receive the protection afforded victims of male-perpetrated abuse. Furthermore, professionals' practices may be inadvertently perpetuating the view that female child sexual abuse is rare or less harmful than abuse carried out by males.
This single-surgeon study demonstrates that the DA approach can be transitioned to safely with no significant increase in complications or readmissions over a high-volume experienced surgeon's first 200 cases. Furthermore, our results endorse the consistency of the DA approach during the learning curve period in regard to component positioning compared to posterior approach.
This retrospective study of the outcome of achillodynia demonstrates the possible use of tendon sonography as a prognostic tool to supplement physical examination.
Despite historical recommendations for an episiotomy to prevent brachial plexus injury when a shoulder dystocia is encountered, the trend we observed does not suggest benefit from this practice.
The incidence of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy may be affected by variations in temperature, increasing during cooler periods.
systematic screening for hepatocellular carcinoma offer a limited cost effectiveness ratio.
These RCTs provide evidence that clinical education in an SLE can in part (25%) replace clinical time with real patients without compromising students' attainment of the professional competencies required to practise.
There is a large difference between the diagnostic case mix presented in general practice compared with the ED and among referral-related subgroups within the hospital emergency department.
The predominant factors in incision healing and stability were incision geometry, architecture, and location. Endothelial pump action was effective in removing fluid but was not effective in incision stability. Histological analyses confirmed that starting incisions in the vascular region (limbus) resulted in a fibroblastic response that enhanced incision stability and allowed rapid incision healing within 7 days postoperatively compared with the 60 days healing time required for incisions started in the avascular region (cornea).
Bias can occur in evaluation of surgical skills but is dependent on the individual reviewer. Resident identification can alter the score, depending on the evaluator.
This preliminary study implies that edrophonium may serve as a novel, practical and safe drug for provocative cystometry. By significantly increasing cystometry sensitivity the drug would facilitate the identification of the subset of patients with overactive bladder who are currently classified with sensory urgency.
This is the first study amongst British health and social care workers that has demonstrated that ITS and ITL are not measuring the same construct. While there is overlap, care should be taken when using these constructs interchangeably, particularly when measuring these concepts in organizations and when developing retention programs, policies, or activities to modify ITS and ITL.
Results from the principal component analysis evidenced that all physical abilities/motor skills, except flexibility, are strongly associated with each other, suggesting that one test can reflect the overall fitness among youth. Although it is unclear from these analyses which test would be the single choice indicator, previous work on the health impact of cardiorespiratory fitness would suggest that.
Ward managers should monitor temporary staffing, and its effect on ward staff activity and nursing quality.
Whether estrogens confer cardioprotection remains controversial. Such a benefit was observed only in perimenopausal women in the only large randomized trial designed to address this issue. Should such a benefit exist, these results raise the possibility that COX inhibitors may undermine the cardioprotective effects of HT.
Most children undergoing lobectomy have normal long-term pulmonary function. We found no correlation between age at lobectomy and future pulmonary function. Cardiopulmonary exercise testing should be considered in evaluating functional outcome in these patients.
This study shows that improvements in blood pressure control can be achieved. People with diabetes were 2.1 times more likely to meet target blood pressure. Further improvements in blood pressure control may require different treatment strategies in addition to the current pharmacological approach.
The risk of cesarean delivery and neonatal morbidity in low-risk women increases at 40 weeks and beyond, whereas the odds of serious neonatal pulmonary disease were highest at 37 weeks. Recognition of such variation in term outcomes should lead providers to avoid iatrogenic morbidity and consider interventions to prevent complications of late-term pregnancy.
Resistive index variability of 10% or greater on any day had a statistically significant risk of cerebrovascular complication development. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation cannulation at younger than 3 days conferred an increased risk of cerebrovascular complications.
Patients with moderate pulmonary hypertension did not profit from NO inhalation immediately after weaning from the cardiopulmonary bypass. The decreases in PAP and PVR found in the NO or control group did not improve right-heart function. When the NO and control group were compared, specific effects of NO inhalation on PAP and PVR must be questioned. This could perhaps be explained by data from animal experiments, which found high endogenous NO levels in situations with elevated cytokine levels. Cytokines are increased after extracorporeal circulation. Oxygenation was not impaired by inhalation of relatively high concentrations of NO. For all investigations with NO inhalation not preceded by steady-state conditions, a control group is recommended.
Therefore, temporary pyeloureterostomy did not affect bladder function adversely in the long term.
Robot-assisted radical resection for gallbladder cancer is both feasible and safe. Compared to laparoscopic surgery, the robotic surgery system is better suited for subtle dissection in a narrow, deep space. This is advantageous for both the removal of lymph nodes near the pancreas and hepatoduodenal ligament and the skeletonization of the hepatoduodenal ligament, the hepatic artery, and the celiac axis. The long-term outcome and direct comparisons to laparotomy in a larger patient cohort are needed to provide more clinical data supporting the superiority of this approach.
Many patients with Crohn's disease can be maintained successfully with an episodic infliximab regimen.
Based on an attributable risk estimate, a considerable reduction in the incidence of small-for-gestational-age births could be reached if pregnant women were not exposed to passive smoking.
The diagnosis of melorheostosis can be made based on the clinical and radiographic features and can be challenging to differentiate from other hyperostosis conditions.
Epidural placement when the fetal head is still "high" is associated with an increased rate of occiput posterior and transverse malpositions during labour.
Including effusion cholesterol, concentration in the routine biochemical work-up of pleural fluid allows for correct classification of more pleural effusions than achieved by use of Light's criteria. Combination of cholesterol and LDH had the highest discriminatory potential and the added advantage that no patient plasma is needed for correct classification.
We did not find an increased rate of preeclampsia in women with pregestational diabetes mellitus with early-pregnancy proteinuria of 190 to 499 mg/24 hours when compared with women with pregestational diabetes mellitus with proteinuria of<190 mg/24 hours.
At 75% of the 16-mGy routine dose, the sensitivity and specificity for differentiating UA from non-UA stones were minimally affected for stones 10 mm(3) or larger. The use of optimal cutoff values for dual-energy ratio as dose decreased (and noise increased) provided improved performance.
MDCTA allows evaluation of temporal changes in atherosclerotic carotid plaque morphology. Plaque surface morphology remained unchanged in most arteries. Carotid ulcerations persist for a long time, and may remain a potential source of thromboembolism.
Surgery alone, RT alone, or S + RT is equally effective in treating MIC of the glottic larynx; however, single-modality therapy is preferred. The choice of treatment modality should be individualized for each patient.
The results indicate that there can be substantial benefit from organized inpatient multidisciplinary rehabilitation in the postacute period, which is both statistically significant and clinically important.
More than two thirds of both the GPADP graduates and CS professionals are now in academic departments. They have had modest success in obtaining grants, publishing articles, and achieving tenure, but large teaching and service demands and lack of research funds have made it difficult for both groups to be as productive in research as originally hoped. The field of Academic General Pediatrics now is established. It is the responsibility of graduates of these and similar programs to produce creative research and expand fellowship programs, as well as to do good clinical care, if a vigorous field of Academic General Pediatrics is to be achieved.
Clinical forensic findings differ significantly in non-life-threatening and life-threatening manual strangulation. Thanks to MRI a rather objective test for life-threatening strangulation can be added to a SLS.
Our results cast doubt on the proposition that the widely documented race difference in mistrust of medical care results from the Tuskegee study. Rather, race differences in mistrust likely stem from broader historical and personal experiences.
In the properly selected patient, microvascular free tissue transfer can be performed safely and with acceptable surgical outcome. Contrary to popular belief, delayed wound healing from immunosuppressive agents was uncommon. Free tissue transfer in healthy organ transplant patients can be considered in reconstructive surgery decision making.
Recent increases in work RVUs for many gynecologic procedures have resulted in improved reimbursement. However, even with these improvements, significant gender bias still exists in the Medicare reimbursement of female-specific procedures. This gender bias is further magnified as more private insurance carriers use the system to set reimbursement.
Most women testing positive for HCV antibodies have identifiable risk factors; however, a small number will not be detected if a risk factor based screening approach is adopted. The benefits of universal screening must be weighed against the potential cost savings of a risk factor based screening program.
Dartos flap coverage emerges as an important, clinically identifiable and modifiable risk factor associated with fistula reduction following tubularized incised plate repair for distal hypospadias after adjusting for placement of a urethral stent. Furthermore, stenting is an effect modifier in the association between dartos flap coverage and urethrocutaneous fistula.
Patients referred to inpatient treatment have a poorer long-term prognosis than patients treated as outpatients.
Macroscopic evaluation of resection margins by the surgeon is precise and usually avoids the need for frozen section. However when the margins are considered to be incomplete by the surgeon, frozen section examination is mandatory to avoid positive margins, which must remain the main objective of conservative surgery.
This study demonstrated the effectiveness of vascular stenting for SVCO in NSCLC patients. The high response rate, quick effect and safety of vascular stenting make this palliative treatment a candidate as a potential standard procedure. The results, however, must be confirmed in a prospective randomized trial including quality of life assessment.
Closure of the maxillary midline diastema with a prominent frenum is more predictable with frenectomy and concomitant orthodontic treatment than with frenectomy alone. This study demonstrates the importance of an interdisciplinary approach to treat maxillary midline diastemas, ideally including general practitioners, oral surgeons, periodontists, and orthodontists.
Low back pain has an impact on future physical HRQoL. Strategies for reducing the effects of LBP on HRQoL should be an important focus for clinicians, researchers, and health policy makers.
The authors confirmed the high prevalence of mental fatigue in patients with Parkinson disease (PD). Fatigue is related to other non-motor features such as depression and excessive daytime sleepiness, but cannot be explained by this comorbidity alone. In more than half of the patients mental fatigue is persistent and seems to be an independent symptom that develops parallel to the progressive neurodegenerative disorder of PD.
Patients undergoing therapeutic hypothermia following cardiac arrest may be able to tolerate a substantial proportion of their daily nutritional requirements. It is possible that routine use of prokinetic drugs during this period may increase the success of feed delivery enterally and this could usefully be explored.
A mucosal block is the most cost-effective method to avert the pain and cramping from cryosurgery in women who have taken a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug before the procedure.
The ABCD scoring system for identifying high-risk patients after TIA is a useful aid in determining which patients require admission from the ED. Its use results in a significant reduction in the number of admissions without any inappropriate discharges.
Patients of working age know quite accurately how much the drugs they are prescribed for long-term treatment cost, but pensioners know a lot less. Patients believed that doctors were sufficiently sensitive to the cost of prescriptions.
These cases represent 11% of all tinea capitis observed in the same period of time (higher than the 3-5% observed in the literature). Secretion of sebum and colonization by Pityrosporon orbiculare are supported to protect the scalp against dermatophytic invasion after puberty, but an immune defect may also facilitate hair invasion. The erroneous notion of the disease being uncommon and the frequent atypical clinical presentation require a high degree of clinical suspicion.
In cognitively impaired hemodialysis patients plasma Aβ42 levels were associated with cognitive performance and both Aβ42 and Aβ40 plasma levels could be effectively reduced by dialysis. By inducing peripheral Aβ sink, hemodialysis may be considered as an anti-amyloid treatment strategy.
Based on our nonrandomized retrospective monocentric analysis, patients treated with less invasive stereotactic and radiotherapeutical methods have a more favorable long-term clinical outcome compared to children treated with a more radical microsurgical approach. Due to the possible implications of these results, further prospective trials should be encouraged.
The CEWR requires further development but offers a potentially inexpensive, effective and enjoyable vehicle for integrating the teaching of two previously separate components of the curriculum.
(1) Doppler echocardiography demonstrates that pseudoaneurysm formation is common after aortic homograft implantation. (2) A prospective study is needed to clarify the prognostic importance of pseudoaneurysms. (3) The high incidence of pseudoaneurysm formation may lead to an improvement of surgical technique (application of fibrin glue).
Patients with surgically treated acetabular fractures and pelvic ring injuries estimate a higher pre-traumatic functional status when assessment is carried out at 1 or 2 months post-surgery compared to perioperative measurements. The SF-36 seems to be more sensitive than the EQ5D in this respect. Pre-traumatic QoL in patients with surgically treated acetabular fractures and pelvic ring injuries is generally high and pre-existing discomfort from the pelvic region is uncommon.
HRCT classification based on 2011 guidelines showed high accuracy in stratifying fibrotic changes because in our study UIP, possible UIP and inconsistent with UIP pattern seem to be correlated with different disease progression and mortality rate.
Our findings highlight the need for evaluation of the DGA's effectiveness, particularly among ethnic minority populations. Clinicians should be aware that following the DGA might not lower diabetes risk.
The signature of sex was found in worldwide populations of PAC species and functionality of MAT genes is likely preserved by purifying selection. We hypothesize that cryptic sex regularely occurs in the PAC and that further field studies and in vitro crosses will lead to the discovery of the sexual state. Although structurally heterothallic species prevail, it cannot be excluded that homothallism represents the ancestral breeding system in the PAC.
Acupuncture treatment on specific acupuncture points appears to be an effective pain treatment for endometriosis, but this has to be confirmed in further study.
Practitioners' care and support for patients with STI are influenced by their inexperience, lack of skills and/or attitudes. The reasons for GP discomfort in managing STI patients need further exploration as does its impact on patient care.
Microembolic air load could act as a trigger of MA attack. According to recent studies and to the clinical characteristics observed in our patients, microembolization because of MB injection might provoke a decrease in cerebral oxygen saturation, thus triggering cortical spreading depression and, thereafter, MA attack. Larger and prospective studies will be necessary to confirm our data and observe a wider correlation.
Taking into account principles of classical test theory this study showed that sufficient systematic coherence of the data must be proven before changes can be calculated. As long as neither an adequate systematic nor useful criteria can be found, there seems to be no reason to exclude any patient from multimodal therapy using pre-selection criteria.
Vitamin D deficiency was far more common than anaemia or EBLL, and Hb and Pb status were not predictors of vitamin D status.
After publication of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons' guidelines, some surgeons have utilized aspirin as thromboprophylaxis after TJA. Based on our findings from a large institutional database, aspirin offers suitable prophylaxis against symptomatic PE in selected patients.
SPECT/CT findings significantly correlate with the degree and size of chondral lesions on MR images. Grade 3 and 4 chondral lesions of the knee, as well as larger lesions, correlate with a high bone tracer uptake.
Behavioral interventions have prevented STD. We found people tend to have safe sex with risky partners and risky sex with safe partners. Therefore, it is difficult to extrapolate the disease prevention efficacy of an intervention from a measured effect on behavior alone.
NIRS is potentially useful in monitoring cerebral oxygenation; however, at present NIRS does not effectively predict the outcomes of stroke or vascular death in patients with CAO. This study does confirm the primary role of TCD VMR in the outcome of carotid disease.
Renal transplantation can be performed safely without preemptive bladder augmentation. Ureteral reimplantation is recommended, even in patients with small valve bladders. The decision about the need for bladder augmentation should be made only after normal diuresis is restored.
This study has objectively demonstrated that early oral feeding is feasible and safe in patients who have elective colorectal surgery.
We identified errors and permissible heterogeneity in C-CDA documents that will limit semantic interoperability. Our findings also point to several practical opportunities to improve C-CDA document quality and exchange in the coming years.
Easier processing of visual information in partial and precursor abilities are consistent with a tendency to prefer a visual-lexical processing strategy. The presented study stresses the importance of generally assessing reading and writing skills when evaluating language development in children supplied with cochlear implants. Partial and precursor abilities should be included in order to identify any delay in development promptly. Thus, individual qualitative characteristics can be addressed in therapeutic intervention.
A penile prosthesis remains a highly promising treatment in older patients with a similar satisfaction rate to those published for younger patients. Thus, the motivation of the patient and not the age of the patient should be the main determinant factor in this surgical procedure.
Air transfer of patients with acute ischemic stroke treated with thrombolysis does not seem to impart any benefit to patient outcomes when compared with ground transport. Therefore, ground transport should be considered for these patients unless they are being considered for emergency endovascular rescue therapy.
These results suggest that small, clinically detectable unifocal tumors could be treated without the need for a further excision. Eradication of microscopic residual tumor could be done by irradiation only, sparing the patient an additional surgical procedure.
Children do not become hypermetabolic during critical illness. These data suggest that agreement between resting energy expenditure and the predictive equations are so broad that they are inappropriate for use in critically ill children.
The study showed that in clinical practice patients submitted to 5-fluorouracil +/- folinic acid obtained a similar high protection from vomiting and nausea regardless of whether or not antiemetic prophylaxis was given. It would be therefore reasonable not to treat patients undergoing such chemotherapy, whereas patients with previous experience of vomiting/nausea caused by chemotherapy should be given an antiemetic prophylaxis.
Job related mechanical exposure in both sexes, and psychosocial factors in women, seem independently of each other to play a part for development of shoulder and neck pain in vocationally active people. The effect of psychosocial factors was more prominent in women, which could be the result of biological factors as well as gender issues. These results suggest that interventions aiming at reducing the occurrence of shoulder and neck pain should include both mechanical and psychosocial factors.
Fluid resuscitation after uncontrolled venous bleeding transiently increased cardiac output and mean arterial blood pressure compared with nonresuscitated animals. Moderate fluid administration, i.e., 10 mL, however, did increase total hepatic blood flow. In contrast, increasing the resuscitation volume to 30 mL did not improve hemodynamic parameters or regional perfusion. Thus moderate instead of no resuscitation or larger volume of resuscitation is recommended in an uncontrolled model of venous hemorrhage.
In pancreas-kidney transplant recipients, a low insulin response after intravenous glucagon predicts a reduced insulin response after oral glucose and an impaired oral glucose tolerance. This simple test may be helpful in the follow-up of pancreas transplant recipients.
Patients with H. pylori-associated peptic ulcer bleeding should be tested to confirm eradiation of H. pylori after completion of antibiotic treatment.
The current findings from a single hospital are comparable with the results from a broader study of equity of access by age to cardiological interventions in another district hospital in the same region. Although only two hospitals were analysed, the similarity of findings enhances the generalisability of the results presented here. It appears that age per se causes older cardiac hospital patients to be treated differently.
Based on the present study, it appears that natural drying is a safe and effective means of umbilical cord care in preterm infants.
Those patients with chronic heart failure who express a willingness to take part in a clinical trial, appear to have a better prognosis than those who do not.
The subgroups without hormone receptor expression, with Her2/neu overexpression or without (triple-negative group), have characteristics associated with variables of a poorer prognosis. The lack of progesterone receptor expression also seems to be associated with these.
Since duty hour restrictions were introduced, there have been small but notable declines in the number of total surgeon and surgeon chief operative cases reported by graduating residents. Over a longer time period, operative cases reported by graduating residents in the roles of first assistant and teaching assistant declined dramatically. Although some of these declines were gradual, recent declines may have been accelerated by the 80-hour duty hour restrictions. These trends must be considered as we plan the education of present and future surgical residents.
Prostate biopsy does not give rise to formation of fibrotic scar tissue in the peripheral zone. Most postbiopsy-detected lesions are prostatitis foci, but all hypoechoic lesions must be sampled during repeated prostate biopsies because of the 38.5% cancer detection rate.
CT texture analysis can be used to accurately differentiate fp-AML from RCC on unenhanced CT images.
It is important to recognize that solid pseudopapillary tumors may present or recur as locally invasive as well as widely metastatic lesions. While clinical presentation and radiology demonstrate an aggressive disease, it may still be difficult to prove its malignant potential on conventional histomorphological grounds. In spite of the presence of local invasion and metastasis, long term survival is possible and complete excision should be attempted.
Sitagliptin increased the heart rate response to intraduodenal glucose infusion at 2 kcal/min in people with Type 2 diabetes, which was associated with augmentation of plasma intact glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide concentrations. These observations warrant further clarification of a potential role for glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide in the control of the 'gut-heart' axis.
There is a limited place for multidimensional small area classifications in the analysis of health data for both research and health needs assessment provided the inherent drawbacks of these data are understood in interpreting the results.
The exercise of power is not a negative phenomenon in situations requiring safety, control, quick decisions, coping with time-contingencies, as it daily happens in rehabilitation wards. However, subject's dignity is compatible with that exercise of power. Rehabilitation staff should be aware of the nurse role, which can be only partially perceived. Better communication between nurses and other components of the rehabilitative staff would improve self-esteem and hasten motivation. Apparently, when the association between the ''experience'' variable and the sum variable was considered, it was found that the group of low clinical experience believed that power was exercised more often.
Laparoscopic adrenalectomy in patients with previous ipsilateral upper abdominal surgery is feasible and safe, with comparable outcomes to those without previous relevant surgery, including contralateral upper abdominal surgery.
This study demonstrates that, using CMS, a different kind of mild adverse events were detected compared to the observation by the treating physician. The system presented appears to be sufficiently sensitive, but the specificity is too low to make it acceptable for physicians in daily practice. In children, clinically important ADRs can be detected best by intensified surveillance.
Plasma copeptin levels are elevated predialysis and increase further during hemodialysis. Volume stimuli, i.e. decreases in MAP and blood volume, rather than osmotic stimuli, are associated with change in copeptin levels during hemodialysis.
The Afinion cannot be used as an alternative method for the Tosoh G8 when testing for HbA1c in the presence of Hb-Tacoma.
The exercise would require further investigation to clarify its benefits in treating postural problems after stroke.
Severity of Vm did not reflect the type, or presence, of underlying pathology. Morphology appears an indicator of pathology. Angular ventricles should initiate a search for spinal defects. Colpocephaly may indicate ACC.
Many opportunities to intervene with smokers and binge drinkers are lost. Efforts to increase physician education and to identify and reduce other barriers may help.
This is the first study to identify genetic variants modifying lipid responses to a randomized lifestyle behavior intervention in overweight or obese individuals with diabetes mellitus. The effects of genetic factors on lipid changes may differ from the effects on baseline lipids and are modifiable by behavioral intervention.
Growth-retarded premature infants have a significantly higher risk of morbidity and mortality, both before and after delivery, than do appropriately grown infants.
The accuracy of preoperative ultrasonography for the diagnosis of associated CBD stones for patients with gallstones is not high. However, elevated alanine aminotransferase, concurrent acute cholecystitis, and CBD diameter were identified as key factors that may affect the accuracy of the diagnosis. Thus, routine preoperative MRCP examination is suggested for patients with gallstones to rule out possible concomitant CBD stones.
The reassessment policy appears to have shifted people with mental health problems from inactivity into unemployment, but there was no evidence that it had increased their chances of employment. There is an urgent need for services that can support the increasing number of people with mental health problems on unemployment benefits.
The haemodynamic responses to exogenous BNP and ANP in acute heart failure were strikingly different. Whereas ANP actions were blunted, BNP response was preserved. Hypothetically, the presence of a putative BNP receptor may explain this finding.
This study found clear evidence of social differences in physical activity. Persistently high SEP and upward social mobility were associated with greater levels of LTPA but also increased sedentary behavior and less walking.
In contrast to the findings of previous studies, we provide evidence of a less favorable outcome with delayed presentation of PUVs relative to those diagnosed in the first year after birth in respect to renal function and upper tract dilation.
This study reports high des-acyl ghrelin and leptin levels and low acyl ghrelin levels in HD patients, a finding potentially associated with inflammation and food intake.
Off-pump techniques may reduce early mortality in selected patients undergoing re-operative CABG; however, this does not persist into mid-term follow-up. OPCAB may also lead to intra-operative conversion and, although this did not affect outcomes in this study, these results are constrained by the limited data available. Furthermore, OPCAB may increase target vessel revascularization and, consequently, incomplete revascularization which, whilst not reflected in the short-term outcomes, requires longer-term follow-up in order to be fully assessed.
Primary care clinicians are able to identify radiographs for which a second reading by a radiologist will not result in substantial changes in care.
Our high POI rate of 40% (48/120) coupled with long rescue times and the occasional severe injuries support the argument for winching Physicians. Not doing so would deny a significant proportion of patients time-critical interventions, advanced analgesia and procedural sedation.
The mean diameter of round and polygonal follicles accurately predicts total follicular volume. However, clinical decisions in ovulation induction should be modified when the follicle shape is predominantly ellipsoid because the traditionally held belief that the sonographic measurement of the follicular diameter correlates with the follicular volume does not apply in those circumstances.
Our study demonstrated that predictive tools for prostate cancer developed in the US could be applied to European patients with comparable accuracy to that reported for validation studies performed with US patients.
Paramedics in an urban/suburban EMS system can diagnose STEMI and identify appropriate cardiac catheterization laboratory activations with a high degree of accuracy, and an acceptable false-positive rate, when tested using paper-based scenarios.
This study reveals that real-time stimulus pixelization favors reading performance. Performance gains were moderate, however, and did not allow for a significant (e.g., twofold) reduction of the minimum resolution (400-500 pixels) needed to achieve useful reading abilities.
The difficulty that people with dyslexia experience with reading might be the most salient manifestation of a more general high-level visual deficit.
Our data obtained from crossbreeding studies during suckling period suggest that the defective pancreatic beta-cell mass is not environmentally programmed in the GK model of type 2 diabetes. Rather, they support the hypothesis that the beta-cell mass defect in the GK is linked to genetic determinism.
Judicious use of clamp-and-sew techniques can achieve excellent neurologic outcomes, equivalent to distal aortic perfusion. Prompt evaluation leads to improved survival. Factors such as age, mechanism of injury, site of aortic injury, or operative technique did not affect mortality.
The policy of selective use of prophylactic antibiotics for caesarean sections has been successful in our hospital. This study does not permit conclusions as to whether selective prophylactics is a better alternative than routine prophylactics, but the results question whether the recommendation in the Cochrane Review is the best choice for all delivery units.
Decompressive craniectomy in younger patients with malignant MCA territory infarction improves both survival rates and functional outcomes. Although survival rates were improved after surgery in elderly patients, functional outcome and level of independence were poor.
This method for assessing hip instability is reliable, reproducible, and easy to learn and use. However, as a diagnostic tool in the clinical setting, it is useful only for fractures involving greater than 50% of the posterior wall owing to limited accuracy. For fractures less than 50%, EUA should be performed to determine hip stability.
Ischaemic complications of ECMO are common and occur despite the presence of a distal limb-perfusing cannula; however in our study the distal limb cannula was a limb-salvaging intervention in six patients. Prolonged time on ECMO is a risk factor for DVT, and a high index of suspicion must be maintained. Percutaneous insertion was associated with higher rates of bleeding and DVT.
Individuals with asthma symptoms are at higher risk of daily headache than those without the symptoms, suggesting a link between these conditions.
Plasma volume depletion and hypovolemic hyponatremia are common in the most severely malnourished patients with anorexia nervosa. Clinicians should be aware that, because of malnutrition, the common indexes of hemoconcentration may be within normal range and that hemoconcentration may mask anemia. Further studies are needed to assess the role of neglected behaviors such as sodium and fluid restriction.
Our study documents that many hospitals are not providing language services in a manner consistent with federal law. Enforcement of these regulations is inconsistent, and thus does not motivate hospitals to comply. Compliance will likely come with new guidelines, currently being written, by many of the regulatory organizations. Our study reinforces the importance of these efforts and helps target interventions to improve the delivery and safety of care to limited English proficient patients.
LC in elderly patients suffering from acute cholecystitis is feasible and effective. It is associated with a higher rate of morbidity unrelated to the surgical site and mortality in elderly compared with younger patients. Stronger selection of elderly patients for surgery is needed.
The findings support the notion that whether or not a woman has children does have consequences for her health and well-being; however, this differs across the life course.
In this prospective study, in patients who were able to comply with a preoperative neurological examination done by an attending pediatric orthopaedic surgeon, the rate of iatrogenic nerve injury after operative treatment of SCH fractures is 3%. We conclude that this finding is true, and not a result of inadequate preoperative neurological examinations.
Thoracic insufflation produced a reliable and easily controlled model of tPTX. NT was associated with high failure rates for relief of tension physiology and for treatment of tPTX-induced PEA and was due to both mechanical failure and inadequate tPTX evacuation. This performance data should be considered in future NT guideline development and equipment design.
General anesthesia is not a risk for myocardial infarction to state eliminating risk factors and protection hemodynamia cardiac.
The World Wide Web is a valuable tool containing state-of-the-art knowledge about urinary continence that WOC nurses can use to educate themselves and others. However, using critical skills to evaluate the information posted on these and any other sites is essential.
MUD is effective in offering continence with no major deterioration of renal function; however, this needs to be balanced against the need for subsequent additional interventions for stomal stenosis, stone formation and UTI on an individual basis.
The newly diagnosed children with Crohn disease exhibited reduced bone remodeling, possibly due to T-cell INF-gamma and OPG.
Microinvasive adenocarcinoma of cervix has similar rate of extracervical involvement and oncologic outcomes to squamous cell carcinoma.
Approximately 70% of women with pre-eclampsia or gestational hypertension will have a normotensive next pregnancy. The highest risk group for recurrent hypertension in pregnancy in this study was multiparous women with gestational hypertension. No readily available clinical or laboratory factor in the index pregnancy reliably predicts recurrence of pre-eclampsia.
In the present study, higher IBD-specific reproductive knowledge lowered the odds of childlessness among women with IBD. Discussion of family planning with a physician was associated with higher CCPKnow scores and lower odds of voluntary childlessness.
The increased trend in the incidence of CRC in Jeddah between 2000 and 2006 mirrors the recent trend in KSA. This highlights the magnitude of this healthcare hazard, not only in Jeddah, but also across the country and supports the need for preventive measures and early detection of the disease.
The use of titanium elastic nails for tibial shaft fractures, unlike for other long bone fractures, seems not to be precluded in older and heavier patients.
The risk of sustaining a sport injury in obese adolescents was greater compared to those of healthy weight. There is also a greater risk with increasing hours of play, in Caucasian adolescents, and those that play at a higher sporting level.
Although no definitive conclusions may be drawn because of the nonrandomized nature of the included studies, rectal washout is relatively risk-free and adds little to the operative time. This may be performed until a randomized, controlled trial is undertaken to resolve this contentious issue.
In most patients CE is not required to visualize a known breast tumor. Mammographic visibility is a good parameter to decide on the use of CE.
In this non-screened prostate cancer population PSM status (linear extent, location and number of locations) had an impact on postoperative sPSA recurrence. In multivariate analyses PSM showed a strong trend (p approximately 0.06) towards having an independent statistically significant negative influence on the risk of PSA relapse following RP.
The results of this study demonstrate that published research on the value of medical library services has an impact on the literature. These articles are read and cited and continue to be of value.
This is the first study to report mortality data and expected survival curves for major abdominal surgery in the octogenarian population. Our data prove that it is safer than previously thought to operate on the elderly. Our mortality data and survival curves provide real data for the surgeon to be able to risk stratify and discuss predicted outcomes with consultants, patients, and families.
The body of literature on self-management programmes for people with stroke is relatively new and although research is building many issues are unknown. We have highlighted a number of potential areas of inquiry and concern. In order to further advance the research on stroke and self-management we believe a convergence of the evidence base for chronic disease self-management programmes and research which has illuminated the specific challenges and barriers of living with stroke is warranted. There is also a need to avoid the potential consequence of focusing on a "one-size" programme but rather develop interventions which can be inclusive of social aspects of self-management, and identify new methods of delivery.
Total thyroidectomy can be performed with low morbidity in patients with Graves' disease; only transient hypocalcemia occurred more often than in patients with nodular goiter. Total thyroidectomy should be presented as a therapeutic option for all patients with Graves' disease.
Preoperative CXR did not identify pulmonary metastasis and did not change planned treatment strategies. We suggest that CXR has no added value in the routine workup of patients with a primary melanoma.
Disparities were largely a function of closeness of NPP clotting times to test RI means and not owing to clotting factor level differences and likely related to manufacturing variables. Diagnostic benefit of normalised ratios can be maximised by matching NPP values to RI means. If RI mean is employed, and it likely requires re-establishing with new reagent batches.
Procalcitonin and IL-6 acts as reliable acute phase reactant in an experimental model of AEP, SPN and IPN in the rat. PCT and IL-6 combination might be surrogate marker of infected pancreatic necrosis and should be preferred to other markers assay especially in severe pancreatitis.
These results suggest that women at high-risk are not receiving cardiovascular medications as recommended by the guidelines, reflecting a 'treatment gap.' Modifiable barriers to the management of women at risk for CVD need to be identified and addressed to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality among women.
This study confirms that fetuses with Down's syndrome tend to have a longer iliac bone length measurement than those with normal karyotype. However, due to the different methods used in different centers, the application of this measurement does not offer sufficiently convincing results for it to be used when screening for Down's syndrome.
This result suggests that the symptoms of hydrocephalus are possibly associated with a check-valve mechanism of the pineal tumor and may be related to transient compression of the basal ganglia and frontal lobes.
No evidence was found that BRD differed from non BRD in terms of depressive symptoms and persistence. The bereavement exclusion criterion in the DSM-IV should be reconsidered.
The AR screening approach, using AR>1.2 as a cut-off, captured all abnormal pregnancies diagnosed by the current screening method. This method offers lower false positive (FP) rates to AMA women and has the potential for higher detection rates in younger women.
This study suggests that patients who undergo surgical bypass after stenting have worse long-term outcomes than patients who undergo surgical revascularization without previous percutaneous intervention. The pathophysiological mechanisms for this are not fully understood and must be further investigated. The findings of this study suggest that the timing of surgical bypass in relation to percutaneous intervention is important. This may have significant implications for clinical practice, suggesting that greater emphasis should be placed on selecting the optimum initial revascularization strategy.
This report is the first to describe SCN5A mutation carriers who significantly responded to flecainide therapy yet did not respond to lidocaine. These results have important implications for long-QT allele-specific therapeutic strategies.
Although cardiac transplantation is a viable treatment option for patients with a variety of cardiac diseases, accurate diagnosis of patients before transplantation remains a priority. Accurate diagnosis of particular diseases (sarcoidosis, myocarditis, iron toxicity-associated cardiomyopathy and others) allows for proper treatment before transplantation, which may slow down disease progression and improve patient outcomes. Furthermore, it is important to accurately diagnose patients with diseases such as sarcoidosis, amyloidosis and particular types of myocarditis because these can readily recur in the grafted heart. The risk for recurrence must be known to practitioners and, most importantly, to the patient. We strongly recommend the use of EMB if a nonischemic cardiomyopathy is suspected, because the results may alter the diagnosis and modify the treatment strategy.
Our results suggest that even with relatively mild degrees of glucose intolerance at 2 h, no treatment is associated with LGA babies.
Fear of pain was positively related to stress both during pain and in the anticipation of pain, and negatively related to placebo analgesia. Previous research has indicated a role for increased stress in the nocebo response, and the present findings suggest that decreased stress may strengthen the placebo response.
Smoking was primarily associated with decreased risk of PIH among growth-restricted babies.
Two-thirds of HAART-failing children could benefit from CCR5 antagonists-based strategies, even in case of triple-class virologic failure. Such therapy should be discussed more appropriately at early stages of infection, when CCR5-tropic strains are most frequently isolated. However, before considering such strategies, further studies are needed to evaluate the efficacy and the tolerability of CCR5 antagonists in this pediatric population.
This observation suggests that ESES/CSWS might not always be an age-related condition. Sleep EEG recordings should always be performed in patients with behavioral disorders and a history of epileptic fits.
Our data suggest that PVCs in NCCM mainly originate from the conduction system and related myocardium.
Interventions reduced inappropriate practice but did not eliminate it completely. Compliance issues may be managed in the future via the introduction of electronic request linked to decision support.
We found a general PD incidence rate of 1.7% in our group of patients. This figure is not higher in women with hormone abnormalities caused by PPTD. Women with a past history of depression present a higher risk of PD while those who breast fed did not have an increased risk.
Our findings suggest that the organizational strategies may not be an effective mediator of nonverbal memory impairment in OCD and indicate that the clinical characteristics may be important to be considered in future research. Further studies are needed to improve understanding of the nature of nonverbal memory dysfunction in OCD.
Children with ureteropelvic junction obstruction and CV received a delayed surgical treatment and showed a greater reduction in differential renal function preoperatively, in contrast to patients without CV. Our data show that CV is a risk factor for deterioration of renal function in children with hydronephrosis and we advocate for an early pyeloplasty in these children, especially if they have a high-grade dilatation and equivocal washout patterns in diuretic renographies. Further prospective studies are necessary in order to understand the natural history of CV and to reveal the importance of the crossing lower pole vessel as a structural anomaly lacking maturation.
The US features of isohypoechoic echogenicity, predominantly solid or mixed echotexture, and microcalcifications or rim calcifications are more common in FC than in FA.
Implant-based technique of breast reconstruction should be made available to the elderly population.
This retrospective review of 3D CT chest at 3 months after rib fixation indicates that a philosophy of fixing only one fracture per rib in a flail segment does not avoid deformity and displacement, particularly in posterior rib fractures.
Asymptomatic bilateral TSS exists in patients with ICP≤25 cmH2O, but is likely uncommon. CSF-OP was at the upper limit of normal in our patients, who also had other radiologic signs suggestive (but not specific) of chronically-raised ICP. Findings of bilateral TSS on imaging should prompt funduscopic examination for papilledema.
Achieved levels of SAS score were consistently lower than what was requested by physicians despite an educational program and the use of a standardized protocol. Differences between targeted and achieved SAS scores persisted throughout the whole study period even three months after protocol implementation. These data suggest the need for alternative, more sensitive and precise approaches, to titrate sedation to targeted levels.
It is concluded that adequate and careful nursing of burn wounds seems to be sufficient to prevent complications and to obtain cicatrisation. Antibiotics are indicated only to treat confirmed infections.
There may be a relationship between serum PSA and fPSA levels and prognosis of ACS and extent of CAD. It should be kept in mind that additional biomarkers could be used together with current scoring systems in risk classification in cases for which clinical decision-making is challenging. Moreover, PSA and fPSA results should be approached with caution in patients to be screened for prostate cancer as their serum levels may be influenced from several factors (ACS, infection, etc.).
Currently used algorithms overestimate GFR in hospitalised patients with CKD. As a consequence eGFR targeted prescriptions of renal-cleared drugs, might expose patients to overdosing. The best results were obtained with the Larsson algorithm. The determination of muscle mass by bioimpedance did not provide significant contributions.
Partial photograph protection of total parenteral nutrition was not associated with a reduction in bronchopulmonary dysplasia or death as compared with no photograph protection; this relationship is confounded by covariates with strong associations with bronchopulmonary dysplasia. Partial photograph protection of total parenteral nutrition solutions confers no clinical benefit, while consuming valuable resources. A randomized, controlled trial is justified to determine whether there is a true "cause-and-effect" relationship between complete photoprotection of total parenteral nutrition and bronchopulmonary dysplasia or death.
It is concluded that examination of cholesterol, triglyceride and LDL-cholesterol should be performed monthly if the initial blood tests are close to the upper limits; otherwise, examinations at 2- or 3-month intervals are sufficient, which would save unnecessary costs.
Social adaptability and substance abuse did not predict depression in HD patients. We propose that aspects related to socioeconomic status not comprised in SAI items should be ruled out as predictors of depression.
Follow-up can be an acceptable alternative to biopsy for sonographically probably benign solid masses.
This is the first study demonstrating an impact of SLI on CBV. Further studies are warranted including reconfirmation of the present findings in infants with lower gestational age. Future investigations on SLI should not only focus on respiratory outcome but also on the consequences on the developing brain.
The clinical and biological vitamin A status of pre-school children improved between 1997 and 1999. Mass distribution of vitamin A appears to reduce the occurrence of xerophthalmia and would seem to be associated with a decrease in other related illnesses. Vitamin A supplementation during NIDs should be given a high priority when vitamin A deficiency remains a public health problem.
This study indicates that many of the women surveyed, particularly those who had sex on an infrequent basis, chose to use EC as a regular family planning method. Among these women, it also indicates the need for better information on EC's efficacy and side effects. Such information-sharing could take place within pharmacies, although interventions must not undermine the core benefits of pharmacy access: convenience and confidentiality.
During sevoflurane-nitrous oxide anesthesia, the A-line ARX index might be a more sensitive indicator of anesthetic depth than the bispectral index.
Based on multivariable analysis, even after adjusting for smoking status and gender, we found that race was statistically significantly associated with EGFR mutation, but not KRAS mutational status. To the best of our knowledge, this is the largest single institution series to date evaluating racial differences in EGFR and KRAS mutational status among patients with NSCLC.
Following simulation-based CVC program implementation, CRBSI incidence and costs were significantly reduced for two years post-intervention.
This study supported the evidence that basic mobility functioning is a critical determinant of discharge home for postacute rehabilitation patients. The Activity Measure for Post-Acute Care-basic mobility showed good usability in discriminating home vs. nonhome living. The findings shed light on the importance of basic mobility functioning in the discharge planning process.
The selected measures of program quality and reported non-ACGME required curricular activities, as listed in the AMA FRIEDA Online® database, are not associated with initial Match rates.
The current study indicates that improvement is needed in patient education in PHC to facilitate diabetic patients' possibilities of reaching national treatment targets.
The postoperative pilonidal sinus wound rupture of primary midline closures did not significantly increase the 5- and 10-year long-term recurrence rates compared to uneventfully healing primary midline closures.
Insite's safe injection facility and syringe exchange program substantially reduce the incidence of HIV infection within Vancouver's IDU community. The associated savings in averted HIV-related medical care costs are more than sufficient to offset Insite's operating costs.
Adding i.v. ketamine did not potentiate epidural analgesia neither to reduce acute and chronic postoperative pain nor to improve pulmonary dysfunction following thoracic surgery. Pain scores were low in both groups, mainly because of an optimized analgesia provided by the patient-controlled epidural mode, and might explain this lack of benefit in adding i.v. ketamine.
In preterm neonates, diffuse homogeneous EG of the BGT is a frequent and normal prematurity-related finding.
Our results show that the biological behavior of the mutant p53 gene is strongly related to the invasiveness of hepatocellular carcinoma and may also influence the postoperative course. We suggest that the immunopositivity of the mutant p53 gene has a predictive role in the prognosis of patients with resected hepatocellular carcinoma.
HPD can be an acceptable treatment option for widespread bile duct cancer. However, the indication for HPD in advanced-stage gallbladder cancer should be considered carefully, considering the high morbidity rate and the advanced stage of the disease.
Immediate weight-bearing after IM nailing of tibial shaft fractures is safe and is not associated with an increase in adverse events or complications. Patients should be allowed to bear weight as tolerated after IM nailing of OTA subtype 42-A and 42-B tibial shaft fractures.
We found some evidence of regression (protective behaviors dropping, after vaccination, to levels reported by the unvaccinated cohort). However, we did not find disinhibition (exceeding the risk taking of the unvaccinated cohort), the greater threat to public health. Although we will not know for several years what effect HPV vaccination has on other behaviors, if any, data on other vaccinations can offer critically important information in the interim.
These findings suggest community-based Irish set dancing is a feasible form of exercise that can positively influence quality of life.
An atherosclerotic profile including increased total cholesterol concentration and a long smoking history may contribute to the rupture of cerebral aneurysms. This study provides no support for the hypothesis that inherited abnormalities of type III collagen are a common cause of cerebral aneurysms.
This study supports the hypothesis that in-utero fetal growth pattern is as important for perinatal outcome as being small for gestational age per se.
force applied to defibrillation paddles does not meet guidelines of the European Resuscitation Council. Greater emphasis during advanced life support training should be placed on the importance of firm paddle force during defibrillation.
Prognosis for D-NETs, in contrast with other small bowel NETs, is excellent. There has been a steady increase in the recognized incidence of D-NETs, coincident with the migration to earlier disease stage and improved disease-specific survival.
The economic advantage of extending public influenza vaccination to healthy adult workers is still uncertain and mainly relates to the indirect costs of productivity losses, making the extension strategy more a labour than a health issue.
Among people on suppressive antiretroviral therapy, rapid progressors experience faster initial increases of CD4 T-cell counts than nonrapid progressors, but are less likely to achieve optimal restoration during the first 36 months after cART, mainly because of lower CD4 T-cell counts at cART initiation.
A consistent association was found between severity of pain, stiffness and physical function and the presence of radiographic osteoarthritis. This study highlights the potential contribution of underlying joint disease to the degree of pain and disability.
The framework was related to the association of co-morbid conditions with adherence by providers to guideline-recommended treatment for post-AMI patients. The framework holds promise for evaluating and possibly predicting guideline adherence.
ESWL is a safe procedure and does not cause any changes in TEOAEs.
After EVAR, anticoagulation appears safe and does not significantly alter mortality, risk for rupture, or the incidence of reintervention. Early endoleaks appear more common in anticoagulated patients, but anticoagulation does not preclude spontaneous endoleak resolution nor does it increase late endoleak rates. Irrespective of the anticoagulation status, early but not late endoleaks usually sealed spontaneously. Observing type II endoleaks appears safe in the absence of aneurysm enlargement.
The intervention increased knowledge about colposcopy for this population. Because patient education is an essential nursing function, these results are encouraging. This intervention can be replicated by nurses in other settings. Further research is necessary to understand how nurses can best help women alleviate anxiety before colposcopy.
Our results do not support the hypothesis that EFDs predicts later stable cigarette smoking or SUD in children with ADHD growing up. However, stable cigarette smoking is associated with subsequent EFD.
Applying the EWMA algorithm as an outbreak detection method might not be useful in timely detection of the local outbreaks.
Patients with no preoperative MR were found to benefit from PLV as did patients with significant MR. Beneficial effects of PLV appeared to derive mainly from volume reduction rather than abolished MR in this study.
Continuation of aspirin is safe and should be preferred in patients with higher cardiovascular risk.
Current dependent smoking was positively associated with current anxiety/mood disorders, and former non-dependent smoking was negatively associated with current anxiety/mood disorders. The present research is important for understanding the relation between nicotine dependence and anxiety/mood disorders, and why it may be difficult for people with these disorders to quit smoking. The results from this study indicate that greater clinical attention could be directed toward the role of anxiety/mood disorders in smoking cessation.
In surgical management of elderly patients with esophageal cancer, MIE is associated with lower rates of morbidity and pulmonary complications as well as longer disease-specific survival time. Whether it provides benefit to patients' long-term survival requires further research.
Clinical outcomes after THA are not affected by prior open or arthroscopic procedures for FAI. However, increased operative times and an increased risk of heterotopic ossification were noted after SHD.
Referral to AECs is not yet integrated into the primary care of asthma and offering more rapid access to spirometry in the AECs does not seem to be a significant incentive for such referrals.
AF duration and LA diameter, but not the type of valve disease, predict SR conversion after concomitant ablation of pAF in valvular heart surgery.
Treatment of cholera in the United States was suboptimal. Oral fluids appropriate for the treatment of cholera and other diarrheal diseases were generally unavailable. Widespread cholera in the developing world means that US physicians should be prepared to treat "imported" cases. Physicians evaluating patients with diarrhea should obtain a travel history, should consider cholera in patients returning from countries with endemic or epidemic cholera, and should instruct patients in appropriate use of World Health Organization oral rehydration salts solution or other oral rehydration solutions containing 75 to 90 mmol/L of sodium. Pharmacies and medical facilities should stock these solutions.
Findings suggest that an overall measure of brain damage may be more predictive of general cognitive status than of narrative discourse ability. Atrophy measures in specific brain regions may be more informative.
Media players cause telemetry interference with pacemakers, but they do not directly interfere with pacemaker function.
Identification of these risk factors will be helpful to identify patients colonized with ESBLEC who will require antibiotics for ESBLEC in the case of nosocomial infection. Limiting the use of specific antibiotics and controlling the duration of urinary catheterization will be helpful for prevention of ESBLEC infection.
Modified Devine exclusion may be effective for patients with unresectable pancreatobiliary cancer.
For the linkage of SHI routine data with complementary data sources, indirect linkage methods can be a valuable alternative in comparison to direct linkage, which is time-consuming with regard to planning and application. Since the proposed approach was used in a relatively small sample and a restricted patient population, a replication using nation-wide data without respective restrictions would require an extension of the algorithm. Furthermore, the large administrative effort seems questionable considering the comparatively high amount of missing values in interesting information in the HIS.
This study goes beyond previous research on preference and data quality to investigate how the information provided may affect patient and physician perspectives toward pain management. Although not the initial intent of this study, findings indicate that electronic tracking may provide information which can affect management decisions. A follow-up study is ongoing to investigate these initial results. If found to be true, electronic monitoring may have broad implications for health care, policy, and improvement in quality of care for chronic pain sufferers in the future.
Tibial diaphyseal defects of>1 cm and>50% cortical circumference healed without additional surgery in 47% of cases. This definition of a critical-sized defect is not "critical." However, as compared with the overall cohort of tibial fractures, patients with these bone defects had a higher rate of reoperation and worse patient-based outcomes. Further investigation is required to determine which factors predict union in this challenging fracture to avoid unnecessary secondary surgery.
Complete response to chemotherapy was confirmed as the strongest prognostic factor influencing survival. However, conventional clinicopathologic factors did not predict response, hence, potential prognostic biologic and molecular factors for response must be sought. At present, much effort must be made for the improvement of the complete response rate, which seems to be a requisite to prolong survival.
Subjects who used psoralen suntan activators should be informed of their increased melanoma risk and be encouraged to participate in clinical programmes for early detection of melanoma, more especially when they are poor tanners and display a high naevi count. Such an action could save a significant number of lives.
The findings suggest that common risk factors do not explain a larger fraction of social health inequalities in dynamic than in static models of self-reported health.
Senior officers' norms did not appear to affect troops' reports of military sexual stressors, but unit norms and immediate supervisors' norms did.
The use of a venous tourniquet increases the number of patients eligible for forearm fistulas without decreasing the adequacy rate of these fistulas. Therefore, a tourniquet should routinely be used in patients with small cephalic veins on pretourniquet evaluation.
Patients receiving Thyroidinum had less weight reduction on day 2 after treatment than those receiving placebo. Yet, since no significant differences were found in other outcomes and since adjustment for baseline differences rendered the difference for the main outcome measure non-significant, this result must be interpreted with caution. Post hoc evaluation of the data, however, suggests that by predefining the primary outcome measure in a different way, an augmented reduction of weight on day 1 after treatment with Thyroidinum may be demonstrated. Both results would be compatible with homeopathic doctrine (primary and secondary effect) as well as with findings from animal research.
We found significant variation in demographic factors, place of fall, and mean hospital charges for falling by type of fall, suggesting that future research should focus on individual types of falls rather than on aggregated falls.
We found statistically significant differences in the occurrence of side effects after morphine administration between L and NL children. Neither differences in morphine or metabolite concentrations, nor the genetic polymorphisms examined explain these findings. Studies are needed to further investigate reasons for the increase in morphine side effects by Latino ethnicity.
Given our results and those obtained by other authors, it is acceptable to omit DRE in the follow-up of radical retropubic prostatectomies until PSA becomes detectable.
CBT is effective for reducing dysfunctional beliefs about sleep and such changes are associated with other positive outcomes in insomnia treatment.
Adjusted survival for patients receiving hemodialysis in all income areas was similar. However, this result masks the paradoxically higher survival for African American versus patients of other race and demonstrates the need to adjust for differences in demographic, clinical, provider, and socioeconomic status characteristics.
This study confirms that both smoking and exposure to smoke are associated with an increased risk of MetS and some of the cardiometabolic risk factors in adolescents. Preventive measures against passive smoking should be considered as a health priority in the paediatric age groups.
The use of metaphors and analogies may enhance physicians' ability to communicate.
Individuals with MR have lower rates of many chronic conditions, compared with other Medicaid recipients. This finding should reduce concerns among family physicians that treatment of this special population involves higher rates of chronic illness.
Practicing physicians do not know how well they screen their patients using mammography. Extensive survey data, including direct estimates of behavior, demographics, policy measures, and case scenario responses, were of limited use in predicting actual screening rates. Our results underscore the importance of using data rather than proxy measures to study physician performance.
The minimal cephalad movement of the thyroid achieved by neck extension, although statistically significant, is of doubtful clinical use, and overextension of the neck should be avoided because of its associated risks of pain, vomiting and spinal damage.
Treatment of stress urinary incontinence with the TVA mesh presented a high degree of objective healing and satisfaction at 10 years, with no severe adverse effects. The study showed that satisfaction does not always mean total continence but rather it reflects the improvement of symptoms and consequent quality of life.
The increase at GGT level is an independent risk factor for GDM and identified as high-risk women for diagnosis of GDM.
It seems that octreotide is effective, noninvasive and safe. It can be used as an optional or first line treatment for chylothorax.
This study proves that when performed meticulously and precisely, traditional lower blepharoplasty is safe and effective. Correction of preoperatively diagnosed lower lid laxity is essential; however, when lower eyelid tone is adequate, the authors believe that the routine addition of a tightening procedure for support or the routine use of combined internal and external approaches is unnecessary.CLINICAL QUESTION/
The results are important for interpreting research on the causes and consequences of child and adolescent health, as results across studies may not be comparable if the reporter is not the same.
The results of anterior spinal fusion using a single solid rod in adults with idiopathic scoliosis in this series are excellent, with 100% fusion rate, no development of kyphosis, and no incidence of hardware failure.
While understanding practice traits is not going to be the single solution to closing the knowledge translation gap, it may help to guide best practice implementation strategies.
Recurrence of primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma in patients who achieve complete remission appears to be confined to the chest. Consequently, chest CT alone is sufficient for routine follow-up of these patients.
Respiratory muscle function and cough flow improve with time after acute stroke. Additional inspiratory or expiratory respiratory muscle training does not augment or expedite this improvement.
Although sunitinib and pazopanib are often used interchangeably in the clinical setting, our results suggest that in-vitro biological activity of the two agents differs. Sunitinib exhibits a cytotoxic effect on RCC cell lines, while pazopanib's activity is solely cytostatic. These data may be clinically relevant given the current lack of comparative in-vivo studies between the two agents.
Some manufacturers market esthetic wires delivering forces similar to the equivalent noncoated wires, when tested according to a standard three-point bend method.
This study provides further evidence that a high initial BI is the key risk factor for ENL. It also suggests that the difference between these two cohorts in their experience of ENL as demonstrated in this study, may be related to the different amounts of clofazimine which the two cohorts were given in the early years of their treatment. Further studies are needed to determine whether clofazimine could be used more specifically to reduce the severity of ENL in the small group of patients at high risk for the condition.
Tenotomy for pubalgia yielded a satisfactory long-term outcome, with three of four athletes being able to return to their pre-injury sport. The athletes that did not return to their pre-injury sport had higher frequency of positive hip impingement test and inferior functional outcome compared with the athletes that did return to their pre-injury sport. It is therefore recommended that the hip should be carefully evaluated for hip impingement before tenotomy is considered as treatment for athletes with pubalgia.
The fascial sling is effective operative technique for treating female urinary stress incontinence, especially in severe and type III incontinence and in patients who had undergone previous operations for incontinence. The operation is safe and is the only technique that offers controlled overcorrection in desperate cases. An advantage of adding a Burch colposuspension to the fascial sling procedure was not detected in our patient group.
Patients born in the first trimester of the year are more affected by malignancies, particularly males. The overall monthly birth distribution of oncology patients is in line with the paradigm linking birth month with longevity.
These results confirm that glutamine has a specific role in very old rats. The up-regulated GS activity was decreased by an exogenous supply of glutamine only if intramuscular glutamine was depleted; this was confirmed by studies in the fed state. The up-regulated GS activity in both fed and fasted rats may be associated with increased glutamine requirements in the whole body.
Most patients presenting with ARF have either joint symptoms or chorea, features that could be recognized by community health workers and individuals with limited medical training. The referral of patients presenting with these manifestations for further evaluation might improve detection rates of ARF in resource-limited countries and lead to improved estimates of disease burden.
These results demonstrate that an ET-1-NO interaction exists in control cerebral arteries in such a way that endothelial and nonendothelial NO partially counteract the contractile response to ET-1 and that although SAH did not modify the effect of nonendothelial NO, the absence of endothelial NO after SAH may contribute to the hyperreactivity of cerebral arteries to ET-1 and, thereby, to the development of cerebral vasospasm.
Dual Operator CPR with a compression to ventilation rate of 30:2 provides marginal improvement in no-flow duration but CPR quality is otherwise equivalent to Single Operator CPR. There seems little advantage to adding teaching on Dual Operator CPR to lay/trained first responder CPR programs.
Physical and sexual abuse are significantly and independently associated with repeated suicidal behavior.
Most patients expressed no preference for whether or not computers were used in their physicians' offices, although computers did seem to have a positive effect on overall satisfaction with visits. Doctors' attitudes toward computer use influenced their patients' preferences.
All doctors could benefit from further training in the interpretation of plain abdominal radiographs. This could perhaps take place as formal teaching sessions and be included in induction programmes. Until then, plain abdominal films should ideally be reported by radiologists where there are clinical uncertainties; important management decisions made by junior doctors based on these films should at least be confirmed with a registrar, if not a consultant.
There is a higher percentage of patients at high risk for influenza in the ED population than the general US population. The ED may be a novel location in which to effectively identify and immunize high-risk individuals. Benefits to ED vaccination may include subsequent reductions in mortality and morbidity as well as a decrease in ED utilization and hospitalization for influenza and its complications.
The cutoff value of acute Pd/Pa-NTG > 0.88 has a high NPV meaning adenosine-FFR can be avoided in almost half of lesions.
These findings suggest that factors other than bacterial infection may play an integral role in the pathogenesis of chronic rhinosinusitis.
It is time we rethink this dogmatic approach to patients with clinical signs but negative radiographs. We recommend that patients with a painful wrist following an injury and  negative radiographs should be referred early to an appropriate clinician and earlier recourse to advanced imaging should be advocated.
Repeat elements in many dystrophin gene introns are the key to their structural bases and reflect intron instability. As a result of the primary DNA sequences, single-stranded hairpin loops form, increasing the instability of the gene, and forming the base for breaks in the DNA. The formation of the single-stranded hairpins can result in reattachment of two different breakpoints, producing a deletion.
Overall, ingestion of cold- and room-, but not body-tempered water reduced the workload to the heart through a reduction in heart rate and double product which could be mediated by an augmented cardiac vagal tone.
Thrombolytic therapy can be delivered at a steady service level at all times. With proper training, less-experienced physicians can provide high quality thrombolysis, but experience translates into faster treatment.
Accurate parental perception of their child's weight status and a family history of type 2 diabetes may serve as useful motivators in the clinical setting for diabetes prevention.
Taxus spp exposures result only rarely in significant morbidity. Consistent with published case reports, the most common symptoms were gastrointestinal. Decontamination had no impact on patient outcome.
The protein content and allergenicity of Lolium perenne pollen was higher in urban areas than in rural areas. These differences might explain why allergy to grass pollen is more prevalent in urban areas. This finding should be taken into account in diagnosis, preventive measures and specific immunotherapy.
Distractions in the form of telephone call interruptions may negatively impact on-call radiology resident diagnostic accuracy. Efforts should be made to limit distractions in the reading room.
The ethical dilemmas that medical students perceive as affecting them while serving as clinical clerks are apparently common and often detrimental, and warrant the attention of physicians, educators, and ethicists.
All top qualified embryos both on Day 3 and 5 did not reveal higher pregnancy rate than the others.
Family income is associated with biopsychosocial morbidity and health decline. Physicians who care for poorer patients will likely be confronted by challenging and complex biopsychosocial problems.
In spite of its limitations, this study suggests that poor insight may not be associated with poor performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test.
Estimation of fluoroquinolone MICs on every nalidixic acid susceptible S. Typhi strain is not cost effective in our setting; the proportion of strains with high fluoroquinolone MICs was found to be very low. We recommend periodic fluoroquinolone MIC determination to include all isolates with a nalidixic acid borderline zone (size 20-22 mm).
The pain responses in repeated end-range spinal movements were not independent of psychological factors. Mental distress and depressive symptoms occurred more often among non-centralizers than among centralizers. It is recommended that the possible influence of psychological factors on the result of mechanical testing be accounted for in future studies.
Prevalence of postpartum SUI is similar following spontaneous vaginal delivery and cesarean section performed for obstructed labor. It is quite possible that pelvic floor injury in such cases is already too extensive to be prevented by surgical intervention. Conversely, elective cesarean section, with no trial of labor, was found to be associated with a significantly lower prevalence of postpartum SUI. Whether the prevention of pelvic floor injury should be an indication for elective cesarean section is yet to be established.
FMS with low bone density leads to higher levels of pain and a poorer QoL compared to those without FMS. Coexisting musculoskeletal problems could also contribute to this. Therefore, medical practitioners and rehabilitation specialists should consider screening for bone density among those with FMS and should use this information to decide appropriate therapies to reduce pain and improve QoL.
Referring hospital staff are performing a greater proportion of initial airway and vascular access procedures undertaken in the stabilisation of sick children retrieved by a specialised paediatric retrieval team. The provision of this service has not resulted in the loss of vital skills at the local hospital.
MDN compares well with the laparoscopic approach in terms of post-operative pain, graft function and quality of life of donors. Significantly less operative time along with the reduced cost makes it a better option in our predominantly lower BMI patient population.
In this experimental model, variable-angle screws provided a leeway of 3 mm in both the sagittal and coronal directions without sacrificing construct strength, which may considerably facilitate fixation of these difficult fractures.
This study suggests that liver resections in two stages are not associated with more post-operative complications than one-stage resections. These results should support the adoption of two-stage liver resections in selected patients.
Parental-reported measures of physical activity and sedentary behaviour are not useful as a proxy for 2-9-year-old children's physical activity and sedentary time. Findings do not preclude the use of context-specific measures but imply that conclusions should be limited to the context-specific behaviours that are actually measured. Depending on the aim of the study, future research should carefully consider the choice of measurements, including the use of subjective or objective measures of the behaviour of interest or a combination of both.
Electrical disconnection was achieved in the great majority of cases with circumferential applications, similarly to anatomical isolation.  However, the heterogeneous distribution of the applications implies the existence of areas that need a greater number of applications and that can only be identified during electrophysiologic study.  Therefore, rather than two aspects of the same treatment for atrial fibrillation, electrical disconnection and anatomical isolation complement each other in the achievement of effective PV isolation.
Despite substantial health benefits from physical activity, adults with knee OA were particularly inactive based on objective accelerometry monitoring. The proportions of men and women who met public health physical activity guidelines were substantially less than those previously reported based on self-reported activity in arthritis populations. These findings support intensified public health efforts to increase physical activity levels among people with knee OA.
Women are more likely to undergo screening with Pap smears and mammograms if they see female rather than male physicians, particularly if the physician is an internist or family practitioner.
Adjuvant AV-fistula does not improve the patency of a femorocrural PTFE bypass with a distal vein cuff.
The prevalence of hypergastrinemia in autoimmune thyroid disease is about 10%. The determination of gastrin in subclinical hypothyroidism is not cost-effective in the absence of biochemical and/or sonographic markers of autoimmune thyroid disease. The determination of gastrin is of no use to predict the presence of C-cell hyperplasia commonly seen in patients with Graves' disease.
Adding CCTA to the current ED risk stratification of ACPSs resulted in no difference in the quantity of resources utilized, but an increased diagnosis of CAD, and significantly less recidivism and rehospitalization over a 90-day follow-up period.
To guide subsequent treatment, we believe that histological diagnosis is paramount. Stereotactic biopsies are currently the safest and the most efficient way of obtaining this essential information. Recent improvements in stereotactic technology (particularly robotic techniques) appear to be very valuable, with almost no permanent morbidity or mortality risk and no decrease in the accuracy rate. In our opinion, other available neurosurgical techniques (such as endoscopic neurosurgery, stereotactic neurosurgery and open microsurgery) are complementary and not competitive.
CABG can be performed in a selected elderly population. Careful attention to risk factors associated with high mortality can be helpful in improving post-operative morality. Age in itself may not be responsible for high morality.
While FSAP indeed activates scuPA, FVII appears remarkably resistant to activation. Therefore, reappraisal of the putative role of FSAP in hemostasis seems appropriate.
The upregulation in EXCH transcription either occurs very late in human heart failure or is a phenomenon of heart transplantation in end-stage HF. Consequently, myocardial EXCH transcription cannot be used as a marker for early myocardial decompensation.
PET/CT performed with nonenhanced CT is more sensitive and specific than is contrast-enhanced CT for evaluation of lymph node and organ involvement, especially regarding exclusion of disease, in patients with Hodgkin disease and high-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
ESE has a limited added value to exercise testing alone in asymptomatic patients with severe AS. In a small percentage of these cases an abnormal contractile response, despite otherwise normal exercise parameters, constitutes a new finding that deserves further investigation.
In order to make the extended assessment of the HoNOS useful for clinical routine practice, a supplemental glossary is needed.
A small number of patients may have normal neurologic status while harboring significant brain shift or brain herniation on cranial CT.
Anterior dislocations of the atlas are associated with diminished lordosis or even kyphosis of the occipital-cervical junction, and result in compensatory hyperlordosis of the subaxial cervical spine, collectively presenting as a "swan neck" deformity. Atlantoaxial dislocation may influence the global cervical alignment.
Patients admitted with asthma are significantly more likely to be female. Males stay significantly longer in the ICU. There is no difference between the genders for length of stay and respiratory failure. There was no reported mortality for either gender.
DSME improved blood glucose control, underlining its benefit for T2DM management. However, MI+DSME was less effective than DSME alone. Overall, weak support was found for the clinical utility of MI in the management of T2DM delivered by diabetes educators.
The similarity in lower extremity mechanics between unilateral and bilateral knee OA patients is sufficiently robust to consider both subsets as a single cohort. We hypothesize that biomechanical adaptations to knee OA are at least partially systemic in origin and not based solely on the physiological characteristics of an affected knee joint.
It has been increasingly recognized that circadian rhythm abnormalities could play an important role in the relapse and symptom expression of bipolar disorder. The mania predominance in the course of BD in this population contrasts from the depressive predominance in other studies. We suggest that this phenomenon could be a function of latitudinal gradient in the expression of BD using the zeitgeber hypothesis.
Relative down-expression of ATP5E transcript was highly associated with PTC diagnosis. This transcript alteration may be used as a tumoral marker in papillary thyroid cancer.
Overall, prophylactic magnesium did not reduce the incidence of SVA in patients undergoing thoracotomy. However, it reduced the incidence of SVA in the high-risk cohort of patients undergoing pneumonectomy. (ISRCTN22028180.).
There is some evidence that the order in which the dimensions are presented impacts on the coefficients, which may impact on the health state values provided. The order of dimensions is a key consideration in the design of health state valuation studies.
The number of newly diagnosed glaucoma cases was lower than expected 6-7 years following cataract extraction, especially in the PEX group, which indicates that PEX eyes benefit particularly from cataract surgery in terms of IOP and glaucoma development.
RBC folate (post-fortification) in our sample of women of childbearing years is reassuring. However, it is possible that pre-fortification levels combined with genetic predisposition may have previously influenced the high rate of heart defects. Follow-up study is underway to determine if rates of heart defects have decreased since fortification was commenced. Since folate alone may not be sufficient to reduce non-neural tube defects, culturally appropriate public health efforts need to be initiated to encourage multivitamin use periconceptionally.
This study was unable to provide evidence of association between PD and preterm LBW.
Visual screening and treatment services are sustainable and effective in improving cervical cancer control provision by health services in Bamako, Mali. It is essential to organise and sustain several point-of-care services in order to extend cervical cancer prevention in low-income African countries.
The combination of non-symbolic and symbolic deficits represents a risk of developing MD.
DC-IL-10 induced allogeneic T-cell hyporesponsiveness in vitro, possibly due to apoptosis. DC-IL-10 pretreated recipients displayed prolonged intestinal allograft survival rates.
Similar to gambling disorder, it might prove necessary to subsume bipolar disorders as an exclusion criterion for the future criteria of Internet addiction.
Our data suggest that SIRT2 is the sirtuin predominantly involved in breast tumourigenesis and prognosis. It indicates that SIRT2 acts as a tumour suppressor or tumour promoter dependent upon breast tumour grade.
The Canadian Dermatology Workforce Survey provides a snapshot of the current practice of dermatology in Canada. It also serves to highlight the critical shortage of dermatologists, which will continue to worsen without immediate, innovative planning for the future.
Applying the short-term functional outcome scores used in this study, optimized anatomic restoration in hemiarthroplasty may not be a major influencing factor in a cohort of elder, multi-morbid patients.
When trying to enhance the extent of OCB within a hospital, it is -- according to our results -- primarily essential to increase the job satisfaction of physicians as well as nurses. Within the nursing department, it is additionally recommended to enhance the employees' scope of action, if possible. However, for the enhancement of OCB it must be kept in mind -- according to our results -- that with rising OCB the stress (e. g. time pressure and interruptions) rise at the same time. The latter might result in higher strain for employees. In the group of physicians, on the other hand, a person-related approach seems promising: it is essential to reduce the physicians' subjectively felt strains as well as the job insecurity.
Our results suggest the occurrence of cues may be a cause of quit attempts and that programs to increase the frequency of cues may increase quit attempts. Further research should examine whether environmental cues and introspective states (e.g. self-efficacy) interact to prompt quit attempts.
This study demonstrates that a Barthel Index can be derived from the motor items of the FIM and there is a good agreement with the directly assessed Barthel score. Although a larger study may help to delineate the exact conversion criteria for one item, the current system provides an accurate and usable translation of the total score and serves as a major step towards achieving a common language in outcome measurement for rehabilitation.
Insurance status appears to influence transfer patterns.
The reduction of the tensile strength with time did not differ significantly between sutures exposed to contaminated and clean conditions, even for the absorbable sutures.
In this longitudinal series, IH after open MSC occurred in 9.3%, a rate comparable with that reported in women undergoing abdominal procedures through midline or Pfannenstiel incisions.
Resting whole saliva decreases with age.
Color Doppler cannot predict the uniformity of HIFU-induced tissue destruction. History of radiation therapy was found to be a factor of favorable prognosis and history of hormone therapy was found to be a factor of poor prognosis in our population.
This study of patients receiving oxycodone for cancer pain confirms previous observations that there is most likely no association between serum concentrations of opioid analgesics and clinical effects.
Routine cystography is not necessary after bilateral Cohen reimplantation. Reflux recurrence is low even at a training center where surgery may be performed by junior surgeons.
We suggest that intranasal brachytherapy is a useful modality in the management of epistaxis in Rendu-Osler disease.
Stroke care has improved in terms of numbers of participating hospitals, the increased use of intravenous thrombolysis and endovascular procedures, and surgery for malignant MCA infarction. Implementation of SUs and telemedicine remain insufficient. The availability of diagnostic resources is good in most SUs and irregular in other hospitals. Regional governments should strive to ensure better care and territorial equality, which would achieve the EISNS objectives.
Most attendances were for problems more appropriately dealt with by primary care professionals owing to patients' perceptions of hospital and primary health care services.
AA attendance was associated both concurrently and predictively with improved alcohol outcomes. Although AA attendance was associated additionally with subsequent improvements in depression, it did not predict such improvements over and above concurrent alcohol use. AA appears to lead both to improvements in alcohol use and psychological and emotional wellbeing which, in turn, may reinforce further abstinence and recovery-related change.
Flow velocity profiles in the UV are not perfectly parabolic and modify along the cord. These characteristics may affect the evaluation of UV blood flow rate.
This study demonstrated that the possible damage of CPB on central nervous system and on blood cells did not reach to the extent of causing any significant increase in serum NSE levels in non-complicated patients undergoing open-heart surgery.
Because of methodological limitations, our findings are preliminary. Longitudinal studies comparing needle-exchange and non-exchange cohorts are needed to further evaluate effects of this intervention.
Serving military personnel are more likely to endorse symptoms of CMD compared to those selected from a general population study as employed in other occupations, even after accounting for demographic characteristics. This difference may be partly explained by the context of the military study, with evidence from previous research for higher reports of symptoms from the GHQ in occupational compared to population studies, in addition to the role of predisposing characteristics.
The results of this study demonstrate that patients with fractured mandibles and mandibular third molars are 3.8 times more likely to have an angle fracture than patients without mandibular third molars.
This study suggests that infusion of norepinephrine at 0.1 microg kg(-1) min(-1) or higher may negatively affect cerebral oxygenation.
Air quality in semi-enclosed outdoor smoking areas was variable, and in some pubs was very poor. Where free communication exists between outdoor smoking areas and indoor areas, SHS drift can often greatly reduce indoor air quality throughout the pub or bar. Regulations to restrict the degree of communication and proximity of smoking areas to indoor areas may be justified to maintain indoor air quality and to protect health, particularly that of workers.
An individual RBV limit exists for nearly all patients. In most IME-prone patients, these RBV values were stable with only narrow variability, thus making it a useful indicator to mark the individual window of haemodynamic instabilities.
The mortality in our patients of at least 80 years was similar to the previously published data, despite the advances in PPCI procedures. Considering the increasing number of octogenarian patients with STEMI at the present time, there is a need for a randomized trial to compare the different treatment strategies for STEMI.
Pentraxin-3, fetuin-A, and serum amyloid A all arise together as novel prognostic factors in a group of patients with ischemic stroke. Relationships between higher levels of inflammation markers, especially serum amyloid A, and the severity of acute ischemic stroke were shown.
RCC in men is characterized by higher tumor stages and more frequent metastasis at diagnosis along with inferior tumor-specific survival. However, as sex failed to qualify as an independent prognostic marker for cancer-specific survival, delayed diagnosis due to insufficient or neglected (routine) medical check-up and/or more aggressive tumor biology could be concurrently causative for the higher incidence of RCC in men.
Given that the MA, SC, A and C parameters behaved similarly in both groups, the repair of composite resins should be elected when clinically indicated, because it is a minimally invasive treatment that can consistently increase the longevity of restorations.
Blood ammonia is not elevated in or related to the severity of chronic kidney disease.
The acetabular fracture prognostic nomogram in its current form does not provide sufficient information to prognosticate outcome after ORIF or to determine appropriate surgical management for posterior wall fractures.
A shorter than ideal stent, inadequate distal curl and a proximal curl in the upper calix appear to be significant factors in the process of stent migration.
The demonstration that significant Joule heating surrounds current multiple-pulsed IRE practice may contribute to future in-depth discussions on this thermal issue. This is an important subject because it has long been under-exposed in literature. Its awareness pleads for preventing IRE from calling "non-thermal" in future publications, in order to provide IRE-users with the most accurate information possible. The prospect of thermal treatment planning as outlined in this paper likely aids to the important further successful dissemination of IRE in interventional medicine. Prostate 75:332-335, 2015. © 2014 The Authors. The Prostate Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
The study did not point at any serious problems in family planning among young women, but it did produce several clues for the development of family planning services in general.
Women who were victims of intimate partner violence cost this health plan approximately 92% more than a random sample of general female enrollees. Contrary to the findings of other studies, use of emergency room services was not a driving factor in the higher costs. Findings of significantly higher mental health service use are supported by other studies.
The worse profile and prognosis observed among patients who recently emigrated from the Soviet Union cannot be explained by traditional risk factors for CAD such as smoking, diabetes, hypertension, and lipid disorders. Further investigation, including variables such as psychological stress to which immigrants are more exposed than others, is needed.
AAC provides an acceptable alternative to AVR in selected patients who are at exceedingly high risk for the standard procedure.
Generally, decreased access to alcohol outlets was associated with decreased odds of dual diagnosis of alcohol/drug abuse and anxiety/mood disorder. Measures to control access to alcohol outlets may be an important area for alcohol/substance abuse intervention, particularly for vulnerable sub-populations.
The genetic basis of human NTDs appears highly heterogenous with possible involvement of multiple predisposing genes. We hypothesize that rare variants of LMNB1 may contribute to susceptibility to NTDs.
RP58866, a selective IK1 blocker, is a potent and efficacious new antiarrhythmic drug in ischemia and reperfusion in rat, rabbit, and primate. When tested in rat, pharmacological activity was undiminished by cardiac pacing or elevation of extracellular K+.
Eligibility varied substantially depending on the sizing criterion. In clinical practice both under- and oversizing were common. Industry guidelines should recognize the oval shape of the aortic annulus.
The Orthopaedic GP Fellowship has improved patient management in primary care and helped GPS better identify those patients who need to be referred for a specialist orthopaedic opinion.
The results suggest a markedly reduced prevalence of migraine among older patients with diabetes, when compared with the general population. One may speculate that the seemingly protective effect of diabetes on migraine could be a result of neuropathy.
The health and service data do not support the need to close down small hospitals in a regionalised system where there is a referral system that functions well.
Despite this national epidemic, not all of mothers of overweight girls identify them as overweight. Physicians may play an important role in helping mothers recognize overweight in their daughter. Ultimately, accurately perceiving their daughters' weight category may influence maternal readiness to change to reduce overweight and reduce the health burden of overweight.
The sole use of parental occupation or area-based measures to monitor widening participation programmes requires caution given the proportion of applicants who do not provide this information and the age and ethnic group differences noted.
The main drivers behind HSU are pain severity, psychological distress, and socio-economic determinants. An important set of benchmarks are presented regarding HSU in CP subjects, comprising useful tools for public health policy and decision-making. Results presented may suggest possible inequalities in the access to NTM, and interventions to improve access are encouraged. Moreover, possible indirect evidence of imaging DT overuse is presented, and it is recommended that their use in CP subjects should more closely follow existing guidelines.
Rumen microbes can not degrade phorbol esters. In addition, the phorbol esters do not adversely affect rumen fermentation. Ruminants are expected to be as prone as monogastric animals to the toxicity of Jatropha seeds.
The detection of microscopic disease in radiologically and clinically normal-appearing omentum seems to be rare in USC. Sentinel lymph node mapping seems to be valuable in the serous subtype of endometrial cancer. A less extensive surgery may be possible in patients with USC as it seems to provide the same information as a more extensive surgery.
Primary care access to CT brain examinations is effective for patients with focal neurology, neurological symptoms or a known malignancy, but not for patients aged less than 50 years, or with uncomplicated headaches, dizziness or diplopia.
Spontaneous extracranial ICA dissection may present with pulsatile tinnitus as the only symptom in 4% to 50% of patients. Subsequent evolution of a contralateral dissection is even more uncommon. Generally, treatment of this phenomenon is conservative utilizing anticoagulation or aspirin; however, surgical intervention may be necessary.
In comparing the resultant models, we see that false inferences can be drawn by ignoring the structure of the data. Conventional logistic regression tended to increase the statistical significance for the effects of variables measured at the hospital-level compared to the level of significance indicated by the multilevel model.
These results indicate that frame size, particularly in the lower trunk, is a more important predictor of female weight management decision-making, than their levels of fatness. For males, fatness appears to drive their weight management decision-making processes to a greater extent.
Ethnicity and cultural group identity are complex concepts; women across and within countries of birth identified differently, indicating country of birth is not a reliable measure. To better understand the identities of the women receiving maternity care, midwives, clinicians and researchers have an ethical responsibility to challenge practices that quantify cultural group or ethnicity, or use country of birth as a convenient proxy measure.
Nasogastric tube insertion results in very high FLACC scores irrespective of lidocaine use. Nebulized lidocaine cannot be recommended as pain relief for nasogastric tube insertion in children. The delay and distress of nebulization likely outweigh a possible benefit in the postinsertion period.
The American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program data set has shown an increase in complications for immediate breast reconstruction over time, because of a longitudinally higher number of comorbid patients and longer operative times. This knowledge allows plastic surgeons the unique opportunity to improve patient selection criteria and efficiency.CLINICAL QUESTION/
The clinic-based 10-m walk test is able to predict walking velocity in a community setting in chronic stroke patients who score 0.8 m/s or faster. However, for those who score less than 0.8 m/s in the clinic test, gait velocity in the community may be overestimated.
Small rural communities can safely and effectively conduct low-staff sobriety checkpoints on a weekly basis. Such programs can be expected to result in large reductions in drivers operating at higher BACs.
The results are comparable to other effectiveness studies (e.g., Gardner, Barton,&Klimes, 2006; Scott, 2005). They also show that the IY is equally effective for children diagnosed with a neuro-developmental disorder and for families with multiple and complex needs.
Most complications reported by the patient are perceived to be at least moderately bothersome and are, hence, not inconsequential. Surgeons reported lower complication rates than the patients did, and there was only moderate agreement between the ratings of the two. As with treatment outcome, complications and their severity should be assessed from both the patient's and the surgeon's perspectives.
This study justifies the combined use, in such analyses, of consumption levels for smokers in addition to the risk of smoking, in order to identify the profiles with the highest risk. It was possible to identify various groups with both a high risk of tobacco use and a high level of consumption among smokers, on the basis of individual (male, divorced or less educated) and environmental (living in a high GDP area) factors. The prevention efforts should thus be focused on such groups.
Elevated PRL caused by systemic hyperprolactinemia may contribute to the development of PA in those cases in which the two entities coexist.
The incidence of ST in OHCA survivors is high and associated with poor clinical outcome. The use of new oral P2Y12 inhibitors does not appear to be associated with a reduction in ST compared to clopidogrel.
When we document the association of breakfast consumption with lower prevalence of overweight and obesity, types of meal should be considered as an important determinant. RTEC breakfast consumption, associated with a desirable macronutrient profile for preventing obesity, predicted weight status in women, but not in men. In addition to sex difference in the association of breakfast consumption and RTEC breakfast consumption with lower prevalence of overweight, the effects of physiological variables and health-related behaviors on the relationship between total and RTEC intake at breakfast and weight status, remain to be established.
The pain during ECV was mild and well tolareted. The incidence of complications was small and the most of them were not serious. In this study no reasons for denying ECV were found.
The decision to override prescribing warnings shows variation between providers, and the magnitude of variation differs among the clinical domains of the warnings; more variation was observed in areas with more inappropriate overrides.
Our findings suggest that current guidelines for routine pediatric electroencephalography recording requiring three minutes of hyperventilation may not be clinically necessary. We found that the vast majority of children referred for suspected absence seizures experience a seizure less than 90 seconds after hyperventilation onset, and even more so by 120 seconds. Hence, a larger prospective study is warranted to establish more accurate hyperventilation duration parameters. We also suggest that once an absence seizure has been recorded at any time during hyperventilation, this procedure could be stopped, thus reducing the amount of discomfort for the child.
These findings support errorless learning as a technique that can compensate for neurocognitive deficits as they relate to the acquisition of new skills and abilities in the work rehabilitation of persons with schizophrenia.
Hürthle cell carcinoma of the thyroid gland is a radiosensitive tumor. Radiation therapy may provide palliative relief from symptomatic metastases, control recurrent tumors, and prevent recurrence of advanced resected tumors.
Children aged 5-9 years injured in road accidents as restrained car passengers were more likely to sustain an AIS2+ abdominal injury than adults. This emphasises the need to reinforce educational campaigns aimed not only at getting children into restraint systems, but also insisting on their correct use.
We have demonstrated a twofold increase in maxillary sinus disease in patients with periodontal disease and have shown a causal relationship. Recognition of this relationship may have an impact on the clinical management of patients, particularly those planning implant surgery.
The low PC detection rate questions the overall usefulness of PC screening in a geographical region where histological PC is not very common.
The patient-centred approach was highly valued but was not linked to reduced unmet needs. Many older people tolerate unmet needs and seem reluctant to acknowledge them or mention them to their GP.
Survival to admission from OHCA is strongly influenced by response time and distance travelled to the scene. The geographical location of an arrest can potentially influence survival to admission. Measures should be taken to strategically position ambulance dispatch points and to task the nearest geographically available vehicle to attend an OHCA.
The national use of partial nephrectomy has increased but remains lower than expected in certain settings, suggesting underuse or selective referral. Subjects with kidney cancer are more likely to be treated with partial nephrectomy at teaching institutions with high surgical volumes. The practice patterns of physicians at institutions more commonly using partial nephrectomy may reflect a better quality of care, although additional work in delineating the disparate utilization rates is warranted.
According to the result of this experiment, it seemed impossible to get a satisfactory result of more than 3 days for free revascularized cardiomyoplasty at present. There were a lot of problems waiting to be solved, such as preservation method during ischemia, bulky mass of the flap, and the potential problem of neuromuscular atrophy.
This study suggests that CI422 and Contour electrode both improve speech perception outcomes postoperatively, and there does not appear to be any significant difference in outcome between the two types of devices.
This study demonstrates that in neonates with duodenal atresia, duodeno-duodenostomy and duodeno-jejunostomy have similar outcomes. These findings are relevant for surgeons who repair duodenal atresia laparoscopically, as duodeno-jejunostomy had equal clinical outcomes and may be easier to perform.
In young, outpatient women with symptoms suggestive of a urinary tract infection, the midstream clean-catch technique does not decrease contamination rates.
The presence of bleaching agent has no influence on the force degradation of elastomeric chains.
Shorter hospital stay, earlier healing, shorter time off work, lower ratio of complications, lower pain perception, and improved general health perception are the main advantages of te Limberg flap technique in pilonidal sinus surgery. All together, these parameters add to patient comfort and satisfaction after surgical treatment.
The algorithm provided modest improvement to the residents' ability to classify acetabular fractures. This or other such algorithms could provide residents with a basic tool to better evaluate standard radiographs and classify acetabular fractures.
Transapical aortic valve implantation is a promising approach to treat elderly patients with porcelain aorta requiring aortic valve replacement. It is associated with acceptable outcome and low stroke rates.
A marked discrepancy exists among national renal transplant units in pharmacologic prophylaxis for TB, as well in the selection of individuals for this treatment.
This study highlights the obvious lack of pediatric drugs contributing to large prescriptions of off-label drugs for children, with no dosage or adapted pharmaceutical form for this population.
Patterns of PAR for HRT use in Canada are consistent with the noticeable decrease in breast cancer incidence observed for women of the same age group. Combining PAR for all risk factors indicated that changes in HRT use overpowered any trends of other risk factors. The combined PAR suggest that alterations in lifestyle could have considerable impact on breast cancer incidence.
Leg length is restored by HRA and THA. A difference remains in offset after HRA although we attribute this to intentional medialisation of the acetabular cup.
In this case-control study, no association was found between use of ACE inhibitors or ARBs and risk of hospitalization secondary to CAP. Future studies are necessary to explore this association further.
Knowledge of coronary anatomy with CCTA is beneficial for diabetic patients and can discriminate between lower risk patients with no or little coronary artery disease who can be discharged immediately and higher risk patients with moderate to severe disease who warrant further workup.
The findings that the inflammatory status as well as low albumin and the residual GFR of the uremic patient are predictive of Abeta(2)M lesions suggests that Abeta(2)M has a multifactorial origin rather than being solely a membrane- or technique-related side effect.
Our results strongly suggest an inhibitory role for cortisol in the mechanism of male sexual response and behaviour. These properties are mediated rather via an effect on central structures than on the penile erectile tissue. Future studies to include patients suffering from erectile dysfunction may reveal whether or not there are differences in the cortisol serum profiles of healthy subjects and patients under different stages of sexual arousal.
Ten patients avoided a subsequent surgery. The technique caused no theatre delays and the minimal cost was compensated for by the avoidance of a second procedure for a third of patients who definitively required axillary clearance. No patients had an unnecessary axillary clearance and no patients with micrometastases or isolated tumour cells were subjected to an immediate axillary clearance. It would be justifiable to continue this simple, low-cost and non-disruptive approach.
The heart and peripheral tissues consumed the exogenously administered glutamate after surgery for aortic stenosis. Potentially favourable effects of glutamate on myocardial and peripheral tissue metabolism are suggested.
These data suggest that in the absence of antegrade pulmonary blood flow, a modified Blalock-Taussig shunt to the main pulmonary artery may promote more uniform branch pulmonary artery growth.
MR sialography with evoked salivation is noninvasive and allows delineation of the submandibular ductal system and detection of sialoliths with accuracy that is similar to that of digital sialography and superior to that of US.
Our results suggest that the Cys allele may influence the colon polyp risk in acromegaly patients. Large-scale studies with acromegaly patients are required to show whether being a carrier of the Cys allele is associated with the risk of a colorectal polyp.
We cannot confirm the hypothesis that large brain arteries undergo outward remodeling as an adaptive response to increasing degrees of stenosis. We found that the lumen decreases proportionally to the degree of stenosis.
The results of combined AAD plus high-dose 3DCRT are encouraging. To our knowledge, this is the first study showing an additional benefit of high-dose 3DCRT when combined with long-term AD for unfavorable disease.
most older people in Britain do not wish to cede priority on the waiting list for cardiac surgery to people younger than themselves, although willingness to give up one's place increased with age. The specific time frame did not have an impact on people's responses. The increase in willingness to cede priority with older age could be interpreted as older people valuing themselves less, or that they feel that they have had their 'fair innings' and are willing to give younger people the chance of reaching their age. It could even reflect a cohort effect. It is likely that ageing 'baby boomers' may be even less willing to give up their place in the health service queue and will be more assertive about their right to equity in health care provision.
Capillary blood testing with the StatSensor® is not advisable for determining current renal function with a single creatinine measurement in kidney transplant patients, mainly due to excessive analytical imprecision. However, our results suggest that capillary blood testing with the StatSensor® can be used for daily trend monitoring of kidney function after renal transplantation.
After therapeutic ERCP training involving at least 100 ERCPs, including at least half that were therapeutic cases and more than ten that were precut papillotomies, a precut fistulotomy can be performed safely and effectively in low-risk patients.
Currently the majority of breast surgeons provide genetic counseling and testing services to their patients. They report practices that meet or exceed recognized guidelines, including the necessary elements and processes for best practices in breast cancer genetics test counseling. Because breast cancer genetic testing is grossly underutilized relative to the size of the U.S. BRCA mutation carrier population, these appropriate services should not be restricted but rather supported and expanded.
AF is common in haemodialysis patients. The incidence of major haemorrhage was over three times that of cerebrovascular accidents. Guideline recommendations for anticoagulation in AF in the general population may not be appropriate for the haemodialysis population.
Both interventions increased condom use. The HIV-intensive prevention program appeared to be more effective in promoting safer sex negotiation, and the women's health promotion program appeared more effective in promoting HIV testing. The findings suggest that both approaches may be viable ways to package HIV prevention for short-term behavior change in this population.
Our results do not exclude that for males, head injury may contribute to the risk for schizophrenia in a limited number of cases. This relation may also exist for females, but it is paralleled by an increased liability to traumas in general. Premorbid general accident proneness requires consideration when studying this association.
Most primary therapeutic clinical decisions in 3 general medicine services are supported by evidence from randomized controlled trials. This should be reassuring to those who are concerned about the extent to which clinical medicine is based on empirical evidence. This finding has potential for quality assurance, as exemplified by the discovery that a literature search could have potentially improved these decisions in some cases.
Spitting as an automatism in complex partial seizures, although uncommon, may be a localizing sign to the nondominant temporal lobe.
Telephone interviews may be used to evaluate individuals with BPD I in remission, provided the limitations of this method are recognized. They have limited reliability for dissecting overlap between mood abnormalities and psychotic phenomena or substance abuse.
Our preliminary data suggest that different DSE variables should be considered when assessing the likelihood of future events in diabetic and nondiabetic patients after AMI. The observation of shorter dobutamine time, instead of DSE positivity, has a higher prognostic value in diabetics. In diabetic patients, the only significant role of DSE positivity is for predicting future unstable angina; however, its predictive value is not as good as in nondiabetic patients.
Although the optimal model greatly increases precision, it is still inadequate for scheduling fasttrack patients, where wrong predictions for individuals can cause major problems in resource allocation.
Heart transplantation in selected older patients can be performed with survival similar to younger patients, hence should not be restricted arbitrarily. Incidence of infections, graft vascular disease, and malignancies can be reduced with a more personalized approach to immunosuppression. Allocation of donors to these patients does not appear to reduce the possibility of transplanting younger patients.
The current practice of pre- or post-procedure antibiotics is variable and no evidence can support giving or not giving antibiotics for hepatic arterial therapy. The uses are not indicated as prophylaxis against hepatic infectious complications in patients undergoing transarterial embolization for the treatment of hepatocellular cancer.
The government's expectation of serving the entire population via HEMS within 45 minutes appears to be achieved on a national level. However, vast differences remain in the flying times and rates between bases.
The results suggest that female athletes who exhibit poor SLL mechanics perform the same during various changing direction tasks.
In approximately half of the non-malignant ovarian cysts, TVU is capable of distinguishing between the different histopathological diagnoses of non-malignant ovarian masses. Only in the diagnosis of simple ovarian cysts might use of the logistic models be helpful.
In patients having failed anti-TNFα therapy, tocilizumab decreased acute-phase reactants but failed to substantially improve axial spondyloarthritis and was inconsistently effective in peripheral spondyloarthritis.
In OC, HT and RA showed similar dosimetric results. They represent the maximum gains obtained with photon beams. The medicoeconomic evaluation of our study is ongoing and may reveal differences between these techniques in terms of MU number, fraction time, and clinical evaluation.
Despite published evidence recommending IS collection before FOB referral in suspected PTB patients, clinicians in our health region appeared to prefer early FOB over IS by a large margin. This practice pattern is less cost effective and exposes patients and health care workers to greater risk. Further research is needed to identify the reasons for the underuse of sputum induction.
The degree of uterine descent with cervical traction under anaesthesia has not been shown to be helpful in assessing the need for vaginal hysterectomy at the time of vaginal repair. The 'cervical traction' test is therefore unnecessary, and the decision as to whether to perform a concomitant vaginal hysterectomy should be based on the clinical findings on examination in the clinic.
Alarm type is an important consideration for certain locations. Photoelectric alarms may be more appropriate for installation nearest to the kitchen despite their increased cost. These findings can help guide consumer choices to increase protection against home fire-related injuries and deaths.
Baastrup disease occurs with high frequency among the elderly. Our data show that it develops with increasing age and is part of the expected degenerative changes in the aging spine. Because of the nearly universal association with other degenerative changes, we urge caution before diagnosing Baastrup disease as the cause of back pain.
In the distal extremities, the oblique view uniquely reveals abnormalities and increases the confidence of the final radiographic diagnosis when the oblique view is interpreted along with frontal and lateral radiographs.
Anesthetic induction doses of fentanyl and propofol were not sufficiently corrected in older patients in accordance with recommendations. Significantly greater frequency of post-induction hypotension occurred amongst older patients. Quality improvement efforts may lead to improved outcomes in this vulnerable population.
Our data suggest that Asian patients may be at increased risk of hyponatremia and/or SIADH associated with vincristine use. Although the overall reported rate of SIADH associated with vincristine is very low, physicians caring for Asian oncology patients should be aware of this potential serious but reversible adverse event.
The airway component of an ALS course alone does not give adequate practical skills for non-anaesthetists to manage an airway in an anaesthetised patient. Airway management at a cardiac arrest is unlikely to be any better.
The greater funding for Access enrolees was notably eroded with the introduction of Access-level funding for those aged 65+ in Interim PHOs. Since these data were analysed all remaining Interim age groups have shifted to Access-level funding, benefiting non-Maori /non-Pacific in Interim PHOs. The rapid shift to Access-level funding for First Contact Services has seen a continued erosion of the redistributive effect of the original needs-based formulas. A system cannot be considered equitable if some members of society are not realising their health potential, and financing of primary care should remain redistributive until such a time as this objective is attained.
The Rusch "ViewMax" was not shown to improve vocal cord visualization over standard Macintosh blade laryngoscopy in these cadaver models. Further study with cadaver models known to have more difficult airways may improve power to detect a small difference in vocal cord visualization, though the clinical relevance of any slight difference remains uncertain.
RNU alone or with LND-BCE is a challenging surgical procedure that addresses the upper and lower urinary tract simultaneously. Single docking and single robotic port placement for RNU-LND-BCE has evolved with the development of different generations of the robotic system. These procedures can be performed safely and effectively using the da Vinci S, Si or Xi robotic platform. The new da Vinci Xi robotic platform is more user-friendly, has easy installation, and is intuitive for surgeons using its features.
In a case-control study, we expanded to ADHD-I previous findings suggesting the association between perinatal factors and broadly defined ADHD. Due to the preventable nature of some of these PDPC, our results have clear impact in public mental health policies.
These results suggest that the WPSS might be a more powerful predictor of prognosis than IPSS and that independent validation of several other, larger data sets should be necessary.
Fewer than 40% of primary spontaneous pneumothorax patients are definitively treated with nonoperative management. A prospective study is needed to determine whether primary surgery with blebectomy/mechanical pleurodesis is a more effective treatment strategy.
Papers from different countries published in the same journal have different citation rates. This may reflect difficulties for researchers from some countries to publish their research in leading medical journals.
According to our opinion, the role of CT and BS should be restricted to selected high-risk patients, while clinical predictive nomograms should be adopted for the surgical planning.
We advocate early reduction of the dislocated hip in the first year of life to avoid the need for concomitant osteotomies combined with open reduction.
Non-organizational religious activities and intrinsic religiosity dimensions exert a protective effect against SB in bipolar I outpatients, even when controlling for variables that may affect the outcome in question.
Present results suggested a gender related differences in anatomic features of incisive canal and surrounding buccal bone. In addition, crestal canal diameter, buccal bone length, and thickness parameters might be different in distinct countries.
This unusually high prevalence of Blastocystis subtype 4 found in village dwellers was also found to be pervasive in the animals they reared and the rivers they frequented implying a strong possibility of waterborne zoonosis for Blastocystis sp.
With a low incidence of 0.6%, adrenal involvement is not likely in patients with localized, early stage renal cell carcinoma and adrenalectomy is unnecessary, particularly when CT is negative. In contrast, the 8.1% incidence of adrenal involvement with advanced renal cell carcinoma supports the need for adrenalectomy. Careful review of preoperative imaging is required to determine the need for adrenalectomy in patients at increased risk with high stage lesions, renal vein thrombus and upper pole or multifocal intrarenal tumors. With a negative predictive value of 99.4%, negative CT should decrease the need for adrenalectomy. In contrast, positive findings are less reliable given the relatively lower positive predictive value of this imaging modality. Although such positive findings may raise suspicion of adrenal involvement, they may not necessarily indicate adrenalectomy given the low incidence, unless renal cell carcinoma with risk factors, such as high stage, upper pole location, multifocality and renal vein thrombus, is present.
Our results provide evidence that the long-term recovery of sensibility after digital nerve tubulization depends on the nerve gap length with better results in those < 10 mm. Nerve regeneration after tubulization seems not to be terminated after 12 months.
Only a minor part of the differences in pregnancy chance between IVF centres is explained by patient mix. Further research is needed to elucidate the causes of the remaining differences.
CTS patients with characteristic sensory signs and symptoms not exclusively restricted to the median nerve innervated area should be treated in the same manner as patients with CTS symptoms restricted to the median nerve innervated area and should therefore not be withheld from surgical treatment.
Emergency physicians can perform LE duplex ultrasound examinations accurately and quickly.
Our study provided evidence that Danish emigrants residing in a foreign country have both a higher predisposition of schizophrenia due to differential exposure to birth in urban areas and a lower predisposition of schizophrenia due to differential exposure to a history of mental illness. Although competing selection mechanisms operate, the combined effect of these different selection mechanisms was limited, thus suggesting a potential role for yet to be identified adverse environmental effects operating either before or after emigration.
In a group of patients with CSP, dysplastic MRI changes, together with the prolongation of thalamic wave latencies according SEP, were examined. These clinical symptoms may be considered the result of disturbances of early gestation and of lesions of midline structures. CSP became an interesting model opportunity for us, and allowed for the clinical, MRI and electrophysiological examination of developmental cerebral dysplasias. We believe that there is an important role for septal and diencephalic midline structures in cerebral electrogenesis, and possibly in the origin of epileptic seizures too.
Laparoscopic nerve-sparing complete excision of endometriosis seems to be feasible and offers good results in terms of bladder morbidity reduction with apparently higher satisfaction than classical technique. Larger series with longer follow-up are needed to confirm our results.
Gender differences continue to exist in patients undergoing CABG. Differences do not affect hospital mortality rates but play a role in hospital length of stay and may affect postdischarge recovery. Research targeted at modifiable preoperative factors may improve postoperative recovery.
More involvement in teaching was associated with higher clinical performance ratings from medical colleagues and co-workers. These results may support promoting teaching as a method to enhance and maintain high-quality clinical performance.
Adolescent childbearing in the 1st generation was a predictor of adolescent childbearing in the 2nd, regardless of socioeconomic factors determined at different points in lifetime.
Routinely collected HRQoL data can identify survivors at risk of experiencing long-term unmet needs. This information is important for targeting service delivery to optimise outcomes following stroke.
These findings suggest that there were no preventable complications within the constraints of the number of operations studied and that no additional risk is attached to 'true' day-case surgery relative to non-day-case surgery.
Autologous TEL derived from vascular fibroblasts seem to develop functionally and morphologically like the native valve leaflets in the pulmonary circulation. Use of arterial myofibroblasts for the creation of TEL seems preferable to dermal fibroblasts with current tissue culture conditions.
Like laparoscopy, HALS is associated with less postoperative ileus and necessitates less NGT decompression than does open surgery.
ASB was an independent risk factor for PJI, particularly that due to gram-negative microorganisms. Preoperative antibiotic treatment did not show any benefit and cannot be recommended.
The value of animal models depends mainly on the careful experimentation and correct interpretation of results. Appropriate planning of experiments will help to increase the predictive value in drug development programs, though this may also increase negative findings. However, the early failure may enable a faster focus on more promising strategies.
The performance of a combined microfracture and osteochondral autograft transfer procedure to resurface a large chondral defect appears promising.
The VAS is an instrument with good validity, excellent reliability, moderate distribution-based responsiveness and good anchor-based responsiveness compared to multi-item questionnaires. Its use is recommended in clinical trials to assess global quality of life.
Our series suggests that EM image-guided ventriculoperitoneal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) shunting for IIH is a safe and effective procedure for ventricular cannulation and placement.
The vascular resistance during ex vivo machine perfusion of NHB livers does not correlate with the extent of WI damage and, therefore, cannot predict organ viability.
Self-assessment questionnaires were of low value in evaluating dental, periodontal health status and treatment needs in the study subjects. Findings reflect a low level of awareness that may influence care-seeking behavior and socioeconomic status has a clear role to play in dental health perception.
Our analysis suggests that the major lineages within the complex arose approximately 60-30 mya and the highly invasive MED and MEAM1 split from the rest of the species complex around 12 mya well before the evolution of Homo sapiens and agriculture. Furthermore, the divergence dates coincide with a period of global diversification that occurred broadly across the plant and animal kingdoms and was most likely associated with major climatic and tectonic events.
There is a requirement to identify suitable prescreening test(s) to eliminate many true negative horses and increase the prevalence of prefracture pathology in the sub population that would be screened using MR imaging, in turn maximising the positive predictive value of this test.
A significant percentage of AAH cases show stronger and more extensive AMACR expression when associated with prostatic adenocarcinoma, as compared to AAH foci found without coexisting prostate cancer. Our data provide additional evidence linking AAH to prostatic adenocarcinoma.
Age at menopause varies across Europe, shifting toward higher ages. This secular trend seems paradoxical because several adult determinants, that is, overweight, smoking, sedentarity, and nulliparity, associated with early menopause are on the rise in Europe. The heterogeneity of the secular trend suggests additional country-specific factors not included in the study, such as improved childhood nutrition and health, that have an influence on reproductive aging.
The study indicates that untreated primary open angle glaucoma or untreated ocular hypertension do not seem to increase significantly the risk of developing cataract.
The research indicated that coproduction may be an important factor for satisfaction with decision-making in the commissioning of healthcare services.
The disagreement between staff and patients highlights the need for greater dialogue between these groups. While nursing staff require greater understanding of how patients feel about seclusion, patients require information on why and how seclusion is implemented.
This study demonstrates that the ABI is often not correctly determined in primary care practice. This phenomenon seems to be due to inaccurate methods for both blood pressure measurements and calculation of the index. A guideline for determining the ABI with a hand-held Doppler, and a training programme seem necessary.
Among urban MSM at risk for sexually transmitted infections, this stability in anal HPV prevalence across all ages may be driven by multiple partnerships in association with sexual mixing across all age groups. Interventions to increase awareness of lifetime HPV risk and willingness to adopt preventive measures may reduce HPV-associated health burden in MSM.
Some patients who were involved in surgeon choice opted to go to a low-volume hospital, nearer to their place of residence. Even though a minimum threshold of activity has been established in France for breast cancer surgery, volume-based referral policies should anticipate their potentially negative consequences of going against the will of older and more isolated patients.
The influence of manipulating task constraints and the individual nature of children with DCD must be considered by those involved in rehabilitation. By doing so, children with DCD may search for appropriate motor solutions to many functional movement tasks required for everyday life.
No statistically significant difference was found in the likelihood of early recurrence between patients with isolated CI and other specimen-confined disease. Patients with isolated CI have a significantly lower likelihood of early recurrence than patients with positive surgical margins due to extraprostatic extension, regardless of whether the CI is into benign glands or tumor. Long-term follow-up is necessary to confirm these findings.
There are different waiting time thresholds for different surgical illnesses. Setting a universal waiting time for elective surgery is not supported.
The presented analysis shows that after five months since the introduction of the CTDMS the primary and secondary data error rates reflect acceptable levels of data quality. Furthermore, these error rates were decreasing over time. The digital nature of the CTDMS, as well as the online availability of that data, gives fast and easy insight in adherence to treatment protocols. As such, the CTDMS can serve as a tool to train and educate medical doctors and can improve treatment protocols.
We suggest that rigid ureteroscopy may be considered as the first choice for treatment of not only distal-middle ureter stones, but also for proximal ureter stones.
A see-and-treat strategy minimizes risk of loss to follow-up with a similar overtreatment rate compared with conventional management. With CIN2+ in some three-fourths of women with HSIL, a see-and-treat should be favored especially when adherence to follow-up is questionable.
In contrast with previous reports, thrombocytopenia might not be an organism-specific marker of sepsis. Caution should be maintained in relating a low platelet count to any infectious agent (or group of agents) in preterm VLBW neonates.
The telephone is better than e-mail as a follow-up channel with families of children who visit the pediatric ED. The main reason for not responding to e-mails is "technical problems." E-mail could be a mean for follow-up contact for part of our patient population, especially for nonurgent purposes.
The majority of EMR programs trained residents in VL. The Glidescope device was used most frequently. Non-EMR EDs in New York State had a lower presence of VL devices, with the Glidescope device again being the most common. These results demonstrate that VL is pervasive in both practice environments.
Hemodynamic stability is the most important criterion for the indication of non-operative treatment. However, in well-selected cases, patients with grade 4 splenic traumas and those with extra-splenic injuries could also be treated successfully with the non-operative method.
The ICIQ-SF is easy to administer and, in this study, correlated best with the 1-h pad test in women with pure primary or secondary USI. It incorporates both symptom severity and QoL variables. We recommend its routine use in clinical practice.
Organized inpatient (stroke unit) care appears to reduce the risk of death after stroke through the prevention and treatment of complications, in particular infections.
The L/S ratio when used with other ultrasound features aids differentiation between PA and WT in the parotid gland; however, masses with macroscopic cystic structures ≥50% should not be judged by this parameter.
Shortening the postoperative hospital stay to 4 days following elective coronary bypass surgery appears to be safe and can be a means of reducing the cost of care. This in turn may result in a greater availability of resources and in an effective way of reducing waiting lists.
HCC does not have a poorer prognosis than OFC.
Delegation of the sonographic analysis to inexperienced, less qualified personnel, even with the help of image analysis software, seems to be inadvisable. This is especially the case if three-dimensional information from the real time analysis is not available.
HTE is frequently ignored or incorrectly analyzed. An iterative process of exploratory analysis followed by confirmatory HTE analysis will generate the data needed to facilitate an individualized approach to evidence-based medicine.
Failing to account properly for the effect of model selection can reduce the accepted burden of proof for concluding a statistically significant association between PM and mortality.
Addition of cisapride to PPI treatment does not appear to improve oesophageal motility or reduce DGOR in patients with Barrett's oesophagus.
Traditional laparoscopic surgery in infants can have an excellent cosmetic result with "invisible" scars. The cosmetic benefit and thus the role of SPL in infants are therefore questionable.
Primary blood tubes mixing after collection with evacuated tube system appears to be unnecessary.
PET/CT and brain MRI is not necessary in the staging of pure GGO nodular lung adenocarcinoma.
In this standard porcine model of witnessed out-of-hospital cardiac arrest, early postresuscitation stress hyperglycemia did not appear to affect neurologic outcome. During the prehospital phase of treatment and transport, treatment of hyperglycemia by emergency medical services providers may not be warranted.
The 5-year cause-specific survival rate for all patients was lower than the previously reported rate of 96.7% for pathologically submucosal invasive EGC patients after gastrectomy; therefore, ESD appears to have been an ineffective treatment for operable patients with cSM EGC.
The new Elecsys assay fulfilled present analytical performance requirements and showed close agreement to other well-established methods for 25(OH)D analysis, making it fit for routine assessment of vitamin D status.
PHT can be considered an effective treatment in this elderly, unfit population with the aim of stopping disease progression so that these patients die with their breast cancer, not of it.
In the present in vivo studies it could be demonstrated that long irrigated ablation electrodes induce continuous lesions without the risk of thrombus formation at the electrode. Increase of RF duration from 30 to 90 seconds with power setting of 40-60 W, respectively, created deeper lesions without the risk of thrombus formation. Thus, the helical formed irrigated ablation catheter appears to be appropriate for simplified PV isolation.
For normal and obese women, vaginal hysterectomy offered the shortest hospital stay and surgery time. In obese patients for whom vaginal hysterectomy is not possible, laparoscopic hysterectomy should be considered before abdominal hysterectomy, because the laparoscopic route reduced hospital time and blood loss.
The anatomical variations found in the cerebral arterial circle of the Iranian males in the current study were not significantly different to those of more diverse populations reported in the literature. While taking into account potential confounding factors, the authors conclude that based on available studies, there is no evidence suggesting that the distributions of the variations of cerebral arterial circle differ in different populations.
These results show that ETE is associated with decreased survival and increased recurrence rates regardless of the extent of the radiation therapy field. Also, ETE does not necessarily indicate a significantly increased incidence of axillary recurrence. Therefore, axillary irradiation based on this pathologic finding may not be indicated.
Digitalization has supposed an improvement in early diagnosis because DCIS and small invasive cancers increased without a change in detection rate. Moreover, false-positive reduction without an increase in the interval cancer rate was confirmed.
The study demonstrates a significant annual rise in the number of cases of deliberate penetrating trauma managed by a UK physician-led pre-hospital trauma service.
Exogenous α-MSH exerts moderate HF-protective effects against 4-HC-induced human scalp HF damage and upregulates the intrafollicular expression of a key cytoprotective enzyme. However, as substantial interindividual response variations were found, further studies are needed to probe α-MSH as a candidate CIA-protective agent.
Together with the implementation of policies aimed at providing access to prenatal screening for all women, socio-economic differences in prenatal diagnosis of Down syndrome decreased over time. These trends need to be monitored, particularly in light of technical advances and alternative strategies for prenatal testing. However, while monitoring the proportion of cases with prenatal diagnosis is important, the ideal evaluation of prenatal testing programmes should also include measures of informed choice.
Untreated VVs are associated with an increased risk of DVT after THA. Therefore, patients with VVs should consider having them treated prior to undergoing orthopedic interventions.
HR-US is suitable for the detection of disc displacements in the TMJ. However, further studies may be warranted to reduce the proportion of false-positive interpretations, thereby avoiding the application of unnecessary treatment.
Use of a clinical prediction guide that includes specific factors from both the history and physical examination in combination with noninvasive tests simplifies management strategies for patients with suspected DVT.
Severe long-term morbidity and high failure rate of stoma reversal have a significantly worse impact on QoL after ULAR; therefore, APE is a valid alternative to ULAR, especially in elder patients with planned coloanal pull-through anastomosis.
In conclusion, the increase in cardiac biomarkers is a reversible, physiological response to strenuous exercise, indicating temporary stress on the myocyte and skeletal muscle. Although a combined run/walk strategy does not reduce the load on the cardiovascular system, it allows non-elite runners to achieve similar finish times with less (muscle) discomfort.
Having all discriminatory variables activated with the nominal values, discriminatory performance differs between the two manufacturers. Further larger-scale studies are warranted to prospectively compare the performance of various available ICDs' discriminatory protocols, and define the optimum combination of discriminators in each ICD to decrease the rate of inappropriate therapy.
Δ L-R in measurements provide limited explanations for V1 side preferences in elite XC skiers. In fact, no systematic relations exist between V1 side preferences and anthropometric, biomechanical, or questionnaire data.
Herbivores exert strong selection pressure on seedlings for the expression of defence traits. A delayed greening or red-coloured young leaf strategy in seedlings appears to be associated with higher survival for a given growth rate, and may thus influence the species composition of later life stages.
These findings indicate that, contrary to previous propositions, body image dissatisfaction is of concern for males as well as females, although the distribution of such is strikingly different. The outcomes suggest that it is time to reframe our conceptualisation of this construct. Specifically, the identified non-linear distribution of means indicates that inferential analysis of body image dissatisfaction data needs to be conducted independently for each sex, as well as each body mass grouping.
Because most patients in this series were treated with the intent to protect the bone with long intramedullary implants when possible, the reoperation rate may be lower than if the entire bone had not been protected. However, the low incidence of disease progression apart from originally identified lesions (one of 96) was considerably lower than the physiologic complication rate (12 of 96) potentially attributable to long intramedullary implants.
Unique competencies appear to be important for those aspiring to become hospital foodservice directors. Hospital executives who had worked with RDs perceived the competency level of RDs to be higher than did executives who had not worked with RDs. Often, areas rated as most important for the role of hospital foodservice director were not areas in which RDs were perceived to be highly competent. Additional competency development may be needed to better prepare RDs to assume the role of hospital foodservice director.
Even in healthcare and medical school systems that are specialist-dominated, and in which the circumstances of practice do not always encourage high standards of care, the general practice clerkship can allow students to gain an understanding of the importance of primary care, and of the significance of the general practitioner's role in the healthcare system.
These data suggest that common clinical and angiographic markers of severity of coronary artery disease are not useful in the detection of viable myocardium after myocardial infarction. Collateral circulation to occluded arteries was associated with viability, but its absence did not exclude it. Viability detection with appropriated tests, namely stress reinjection thalium scintigraphy should perhaps be considered as a routine procedure after myocardial infarction, especially when interventional therapy is to be considered.
Given that hypertension control is paramount and in the spirit of primum non nocere, these data are reassuring should clinicians choose to use ACE-I and ARB combination therapy in the very hypertensive diabetic patient.
The output current is not a major determinant of acute response to VNS for epilepsy. Many patients respond to low current (<1 mA). Some (20%) initial non-responders may respond to an increase in output current.
Radical resection of PDAC with single distant metastases can offer prolonged survival with low morbidity after accurate selection by neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
Our findings demonstrate that for the surveys we examined, larger effective sample sizes (i.e., more statistical power) could have been achieved with the same amount of funding using less aggressive calling protocols. For some studies, money spent on aggressively pursuing high response rates could be better used to increase statistical power and/or to directly examine nonresponse bias.
Resection of primary tumor should be considered not only as a palliative or preventive strategy but also as an approach that possibly contributes to the control of the disease in selected patients.
Typical complications of conventional TAAA open surgery have been not eliminated by hybrid repair and significant mortality and morbidity have been reported till date. The fate of visceral bypasses and incidence of endoleak and other endograft-related complications need to be carefully assessed. Hybrid TAAA repair should nowadays be limited as alternative to simple observation in patients unfit for the conventional open repair.
The non-judicious use of tumour markers can prompt further unnecessary investigations including imaging. In this study, there was no positive diagnostic yield for imaging performed for investigation of 'elevated tumour marker'. 'Elevated tumour marker', in the absence of a known underlying malignancy, should not be considered an independent indication for imaging.
The study confirms that conscious sedation induces LFF increase, but demonstrates that this effect is mediated by increased head motion. Hence, caution in design and interpretation is recommended for studies comparing subjects or conditions differently predisposing to head motion.
We propose that after a first acute episode of diverticulitis treated nonoperatively, elective colectomy should be offered to young patients (<or =50 years old) with severe diverticulitis on computed tomography.
The transcatheter approach for closure of ASDs is an effective and safe treatment option when performed for certain indications. Broadening the spectrum of indications may cause some adverse events. Surgical treatment remains a good alternative for all patients with ASDs and can be performed safely in order not to increase procedure-related complications.
In deciding how to treat AOM, the majority of the participating US and French primary care physicians followed the classic sequential processing model, but a substantial minority used instead an independent processing model.
Total navicular bone displacements determined by pMRI showed concurrent validity with stretch sensor measurements but only so under static loading conditions. Although assessment of total navicular displacement by combining concomitant vertical and medial navicular bone movements would appear advantageous compared to monoplanar measurement the combined measure did not seem to predict dynamic changes of the medial foot arch during walking, which are among several possible factors depending on different walking patterns.
The risk of systemic failure from such tumors barely exceeded 1% at 10 years. Unless future studies can identify a subgroup at higher risk, the cognitive changes associated with cytotoxic chemotherapy or the loss of estrogen involved do not appear to have sufficient offsetting benefit to warrant chemotherapy for this group of women.
The study showed that people with dementia are increasingly being admitted to hospital across almost every specialty and that many staff are ill prepared for meeting their needs. The heavily medically dominated environment of an acute care system lends itself to increased confusion and agitation in these people that may rapidly escalate to aggression and violence. Due to various shortfalls in that system, staff will often resort to restraint in managing disruptive behaviour--which is not in the best interest of the patient or the health care system. The way forward is to foster a multifactorial approach to a 'dementia friendly' system of care supported by education.
Peer alcohol use during adolescence affects young adults' alcohol use and abuse. We found that self-control was only related to alcohol abuse. Peer influence was not modified by parents' perception of peers or by self-control. Peer alcohol use and self-control should thus be separate targets in the prevention of alcohol use/abuse.
Hospitals differed widely in their mean LOS for hip fracture patients, and severity adjustment did little to explain these differences.
Nipple-sparing mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction using modified extended latissimus dorsi muscular flap allows single-stage, totally autologous reconstruction with a satisfactory aesthetic result, low morbidity, and good quality of life.
Within this cohort, routine clinical and laboratory factors were poor at predicting outcome of treatment with MTX. Given the major therapeutic advantage to be derived from accurate prediction of treatment outcome, further studies will need to investigate novel biological and other markers.
These results suggest that this category of patients is at high-risk of stroke regardless of method of carotid intervention.
Although MRI is an excellent investigation for assessing disc morphology it should be interpreted along with discography findings before planning fusion surgery. The proposed MRI classification is a useful aid in predicting painful degenerative disc. The utility of HIZs and end plate changes is limited due to low sensitivity.
It remains controversial whether sterile instrumentation is truly needed for surgery. It is difficult but possible to terminally sterilize flexible endoscopes. We recommend sterile instrumentation for clinical NOTES until well-designed, randomized, clinical trials are available and guidelines are published.
The focus on measuring medication error rates is important for improving quality within organizations because drug-related errors are an important cause of adverse events. However, the variances in error-reporting rates and the variables associated with those variances documented in this study raise serious questions about the usefulness of comparing error rates between hospitals based on voluntary reports. Interorganizational comparisons of rates are not likely to be meaningful and may be counterproductive.
Patients' prime motivation for recording is to enhance their experience of care, and to share it with others. Patients know that recording challenges the 'ceremonial order of the clinic', and so some decide to act covertly. Patients wanted clearer, more permissive policies to be developed.
Among 17q12 risk allele carriers, there was no significant relationship between DM and adverse tumour features. However, there were relatively few men with DM (7%) in our RP cohort, particularly compared with its 21% prevalence in the USA population aged>60 years. It is unclear whether this reflects selection bias, genetic protection from prostate cancer among patients with DM, or both. Despite these limitations, the present data suggest that DM alone does not appear to modify any association between 17q12 risk alleles with prostate cancer features.
There were no major changes in dialysis adequacy or membrane characteristics during the follow-up period, but increased IL-6 in dialysate may reflect peritoneal inflammation, which may lead to long-term alterations in the peritoneal membrane. Icodextrin may have a preventive effect on the longevity of the peritoneal membrane.
In our population of VLBW infants, sepsis is frequently associated with thrombocytopenia and an elevation in MPV. However, fungal and Gram-negative pathogens are associated with a lower platelet count and more prolonged thrombocytopenia compared with Gram-positive pathogens. We conclude that common pathogens causing sepsis have different effects on platelet kinetics.
Spouses of patients with type 2 diabetes have a significantly increased risk of glucose intolerance and type 2 diabetes, and they should be classified as high risk for diabetes. This finding has implications for screening programs, which should include spouses of subjects with diabetes.
The assessed guidelines showed a broad range of quality: some producers attached importance to an evidence-based development process; but in spite of this, a large number of guidelines were only of middling quality. As national particularities are only rarely mentioned and the development process of guidelines is complex, an international collaboration that aims toward the production of shareable guidelines might be promising.
Unlike birds and mammals, sister species of heliconiines are often sympatric and our inferences using the most recent comparative methods suggest that sympatric speciation is common. However, if sister species spread rapidly into sympatry (e.g. due to their similar climatic niches), then assumptions underlying our methods would be violated. Furthermore, although we find some evidence for the role of ecology in speciation, ecological shifts did not show the associations with range overlap expected under sympatric speciation. We delimit species of heliconiines in three different ways, based on "strict and " "relaxed" biological species concepts (BSC), as well as on a surrogate for the widely-used "diagnostic" version of the phylogenetic species concept (PSC). We show that one reason why more sympatric speciation is inferred in heliconiines than in birds may be due to a different culture of species delimitation in the two groups. To establish whether heliconiines are exceptional will require biogeographic comparative studies for a wider range of animal taxa including many more invertebrates.
AC has significantly worse medication outcomes, and there is no indication of a therapeutic effect on other end points. Implications for the use of AC in behavioral randomized trials are discussed.
Pulmonary hypertension is common before and after mitral valve surgery. Although there were at least trends toward lower pulmonary artery pressures regardless of surgery type, significant decreases were noted only after MVR and physiological repair. A slightly higher postoperative mean transmitral gradient after bioprosthetic valve replacement may have contributed to postoperative pulmonary hypertension. The physiological repair of organic, non-rheumatic mitral regurgitation appears to offer favorable hemodynamics and a relatively low rate of postoperative pulmonary hypertension.
A "double-tracked" antidepressive treatment using trazodone and the SSRIs citalopram and fluoxetine is associated with a wide safety margin.
Medical student perceptions of surgeons and surgical careers generally improve during the surgical clerkship. However, student impressions of surgeons' collegial behavior and commitment to teaching deteriorate significantly during the surgical clerkship.
We concluded that Egyptian HCV genotype-4 infected patients have growth hormone insufficiency. Besides, we found that response to interferon/ribavirin treatment has an impact on growth hormone levels.
Although carotid stenting, vertebroplasty, and EVAR were being performed at about one-half of respondent's centres, and there will likely be greater adoption of the procedures in the near future, there remain substantial impediments. The greatest impediments to additional radiologists performing these procedures were a lack of training, lack of referral base, and lack of support from their radiology department and (or) colleagues. The former impediment suggested an unmet need for additional training courses.
Isolated and remote populations that maintain a sufficient level of genetic isolation may suffer not only from consequences of geographic and social isolation, but their population genetic structure may also further contribute to poorer health status and outcomes.
The lack of impact of the implementation process for a chest pain CPW on thrombolytic delivery or time to electrocardiogram in these rural hospitals can be explained by a ceiling effect in outcome measures but was also compromised by the small sample. Results suggest that quality of AMI treatment in rural emergency departments (EDs) is high and does not contribute to the worse mortality rate reported for AMIs in rural areas.
Robot-assisted UKA is cost-effective compared with traditional UKA when annual case volume exceeds 94 cases per year. It is not cost-effective at low-volume or medium-volume arthroplasty centers.
There remains substantial scope for health facilities to improve thermal care for the newborn and to encourage immediate and exclusive breastfeeding. For unattended home deliveries, increased handwashing, use of clean delivery kits and basic thermal care offer great scope for improvement.
PET and CT-defined tumor volumes received similar RT doses despite having less than complete overlap and the inaccuracies of image registration. LRF correlated with both CT and PET-defined volumes. The dosimetry for PET- and/or CT-based tumor volumes was not significantly inferior in patients with LRF. CT-based delineation alone may be sufficient for treatment planning in patients with HNSCC. Image registration of FDG-PET may not be necessary.
The maxillary swing approach is associated with significantly better survival rates than the midfacial degloving approach when used to perform a salvage nasopharyngectomy for residual or recurrent T1 and T2 nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
We conclude that failure following MUS is associated with preoperatively lower MUCP, which can be used as a predictor of failure.
Since 145 of 146 EMBs (99%) demonstrated no or minimal allograft rejection, a large cost savings could be realized if EMBs were performed only when clinically indicated during the 14-day OKT3 induction course in cardiac transplant recipients. Appropriate immunologic monitoring and echocardiographic testing may obviate the need for performing costly EMBs during OKT3 induction without an adverse clinical outcome.
CPAP improves oxygenation and ventilatory parameters in all kinds of CPE. In patients with preserved LV contractility, the hemodynamic benefit of CPAP results from a decrease in LV end-diastolic volume (preload).
The applied methodology for CBA has involved a simplistic behavioural response to enforcement increase and control efficiency. Although this methodology should be developed further, it is clearly indicated that the cost-efficiency of increased law enforcement of drug driving offences is dependent on the baseline situation of drug-use in traffic and on the current level of enforcement, as well as the RR and prevalence of drugs in road traffic.
The results indicate that laser treatment of macular oedema or retinal neovascularisation may obtain its effect not only by improving oxygen availability in the inner retina, but also by reducing the load of angiogenic/permeability factors that accumulate in the photoreceptors in hypoxic/ischaemic conditions.
DVT is a common cause of leg swelling among those referred.
It seems reasonable to suggest a move away from a general legal age of consent for medical treatment toward more individualised, context-specific approaches in determining the maturity of a child patient to consent to medical treatment. Perhaps, decision-making with respect to consent to the medical treatment of a child belonging to a traditional African community where the notion of a person is embedded in communitarianism ought to involve the child's parents/guardians/caregivers where possible provided that the best interests of the child are awarded priority.
An endoscopic feature suggesting EoE does not always represent esophageal eosinophilia and is non-specific for EoE, although it reminds endoscopists of the presence of EoE. The diagnostic utility of linear furrows or corrugated rings for esophageal eosinophilia is superior to that of white exudates.
Attendance at the high-quality Kindergarten Union preschools was associated with a reduction in the initial uptake of smoking and thus the probability of being a current smoker. Among their other potential social benefits, high-quality, universal preschool programmes have the potential to help reduce smoking prevalence across the population.
In older surgery patients free of dementia, our findings do not support the hypothesis that the ApoE genotype does not confer either risk or protection in postoperative delirium incidence, severity, or duration. Thus, an important genetic risk factor for Alzheimer disease does not affect risk of delirium.
In the Portuguese population, NOD2 mutations do not increase the risk of UC but are associated with a more aggressive course including greater need of steroids in the first year, increased incidence of intravenous-steroid refractoriness and a higher colectomy rate.
This study illustrates that skin wrinkling in a sun-exposed site in older people of various ethnic backgrounds may be influenced by the types of foods consumed.
Most PCPs and cardiologists did not routinely screen patients with psoriasis for CV risk factors. Educating physicians regarding potentially increased CV risk in psoriasis and adopting a multidisciplinary approach in the care of patients with psoriasis will likely lead to improved patient outcomes.
As approximately 10% of the amount of dry substance in podophyllin 20% is composed of two mutagenic flavonoids, quercetin and kaempherol, efforts should be focused on the production of a well-defined purified podophyllotoxin preparation that may replace podophyllin for clinic use in patients with genital warts. Self-medication with purified podophyllotoxin 0.5% may be considered as first-line treatment in well-instructed patients with external genital warts.
The renogram can be replaced using calculations from the CT examination in estimating split renal function in potential renal donors.
The specificity of FB should be considered in the social anxiety spectrum, and could be viewed either as a SAD subtype or as SAD form secondary to facial blushing. Further epidemiological and therapeutic studies on this disorder are necessary.
In Australia, brain-injured donors appear to be ventilated long enough to allow progression to brain death before proceeding to DCD. Therefore, DCD is unlikely to have reduced the brain-dead donor pool.
Our data confirm that there is no clinically relevant dose-dependent relation between etomidate and seizure duration in ECT when etomidate is administered as advised in current international guidelines.
We present normative data for the results of Mueller-Hillis maneuvers performed in active labor. To our knowledge, no such data exist. We also failed to find a relationship between dystocia and descent with the maneuver. Until this test is demonstrated to be useful, it should not be used to predict dystocia.
Lesions in upper or lower GI tract have been missed in about 28% of patients submitted to CE for obscure bleeding. CE may play an important role in identifying lesions missed at conventional endoscopy.
After medical abortion, the risk of IUD expulsion increases with thicker endometria and lower baseline position. Since no clear cutoffs emerged in the analysis and expulsion remained uncommon even with thicker endometria, we do not recommend restricting IUD insertion based on ultrasound data.
Many people, although not all, make choices consistent with expected utility theory when they have information on differences among plans in the variance of out-of-pocket spending. Medicare beneficiaries would benefit from information on the extent to which prescription drug plans provide risk protection.
The data suggest that there is considerable overlap in symptom expression between cytokine-induced depression and idiopathic depression in medically healthy subjects. Nevertheless, differences in isolated symptom domains suggest that cytokines may preferentially target neurocircuits relevant to psychomotor activity (e.g. basal ganglia), while having a limited effect on cognitive distortions regarding self-appraisal.
This study highlights that enquiry into risk factors such as past history (in addition to current mental health) enhances initiation of referrals. Importantly, results suggest that enquiry about current mental health is associated with appropriate rates of referral rather than a nonspecific inflation of referrals. In line with Australia's Clinical Practice Guidelines for Perinatal Mental Health, the value of a comprehensive approach to mental health assessment to aid decision making around referral for further assessment or care is particularly evident.
Sustained and quite intensive health promotion activity had only a limited effect in men identified as being at high risk of CHD. In particular, there was little change in body mass or serum cholesterol. Although improved blood pressure control and a moderate reduction in the prevalence of smoking can be achieved, further research is needed to determine the most effective methods of risk factor reduction in order to realize the full potential of the 'high-risk' approach to the prevention of CHD.
Working in a dissatisfying psychosocial environment increases the risk of subsequent mental health disorders. Randomised, controlled intervention trials may help in resolving whether this association is causal.
Using spinal MR imaging to direct CT myelography resulted in significant reduction in repeat CT myelograms to localize fast leaks with minimal unnecessary dynamic CT myelograms.
Significant improvement may be seen after acute rehabilitation in patients with Parkinson disease, irrespective of cognitive impairment. More complicated medical tier diagnoses result in less Functional Independence Measure gain, and older individuals with Parkinson disease are more likely to show less functional change. However, functional improvements are still statistically significant.
The findings of the present study support the hypothesis that the blunted response of CK activity after a repeated bout of eccentric exercise is not solely the result of tissue protection, but can be at least partially attributed to enzyme inactivation.
The homogeneity of both populations and their follow-up points out that even if the numbers of children are small and the study is retrospective, some benefits of neonatal screening appear, which are already found in other countries where it is partly practiced. This leads us recommend its general use in our populations, which should be associated with the follow-up of the screened children in cystic fibrosis centers to achieve the most of its benefits.
Our data indicate the need of a modern Reference Man and thus a recalculation of medical radiation doses and medication.
After adjusting for multiple baseline and therapeutic differences between older and younger patients, age per se remains a strong independent predictor of both inhospital and 1-year post-discharge mortality rates in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
Early correction in infants with ureteropelvic junction obstruction may not be necessary when initial differential renal function is greater than 40%. However, any decrease in differential renal function or recurrent urinary tract infections despite antibiotic prophylaxis warrant surgical correction of obstruction.
The alternative hypothesis was rejected. Therefore, postoperative spinal epidural hematoma would not be prevented by LD.
Providing an explanatory leaflet and giving verbal instructions on hygienic standards for urine collection reduces contamination of the samples.
In the present study, the type of papillary RCC does not reach independent prognostic significance.
Critical pathways may decrease postoperative stay for some, but not all, surgeries. Trends toward decreasing length of stay over time may reduce the impact of critical pathways on this outcome.
The increased fat composition in females reported after birth was not found in abdominal wall subcutaneous fat measurements using ultrasound during pregnancy. Antenatal centile charts for FAST do not need to be based on sex.
The differences between calendar age and bone age according to G&P were relatively small compared with normal variance and are unlikely to be of clinical importance.
Several years after discontinuation of anabolic steroid abuse, strength athletes still show a slight concentric left ventricular hypertrophy in comparison with AAS-free strength athletes.
Group education in addition to individual counseling to discuss prenatal testing options appears to be effective in improving knowledge compared to individual provider counseling alone. Improved knowledge may affect uptake of prenatal screening tests due to more informed decision making.
Although many oncologists participate at least occasionally in some sort of bereavement ritual, a significant proportion of oncologists are not involved in these practices at all.
Although PDs performed at HVH are associated with better outcomes and lower hospital charges, costs should not be the primary determinant when selecting a hospital.
ROTEM thromboelastometry has poor predictive utility to identify patients who bleed more than 200 mL/h in the early postoperative period after cardiac surgery. However, its negative predictive value was good.
This study indicated a weak positive relationship between leisure-time vigorous-intensity PA and life satisfaction, whilst no such association was found for other PA variables. These findings underscore the importance of analyzing domain and intensity-specific PA levels in future studies among university students, as drawing conclusions about the relationship between PA and life satisfaction based on total PA levels only may be misleading.
Laparoscopic contralateral groin exploration at the time of unilateral inguinal hernia repair was cost effective.
Our prospective study demonstrated that transurethral fulguration and vesicostomy are equally effective for neonatal valves and achieve similar renal function. Both groups showed retarded growth compared to healthy counterparts. Somatic growth was delayed by serum creatinine greater than 1.0 mg/dl and the presence of VUR. Vesicostomy seemed to help neonates catch-up the growth deficit in the first 2 years of life.
Sequential fractional excretion of potassium assessment appears to be useful in critically ill patients at risk for acute kidney injury.
In this study OSNA had a higher sensitivity than TIC. Fewer patients assessed by the OSNA assay would have required a two-stage procedure. The OSNA assay appears to be a highly cost-effective method for providing rapid and reliable intra-operative assessment of sentinel lymph nodes.
Video game aptitude appears to predict the level of laparoscopic skill in the novice surgeon. In this study, practicing video games did not improve one's laparoscopic skill significantly, but a larger study with more practice time could prove games to be helpful.
When both the ultrasonography and sestamibi scans identified the same, solitary parathyroid tumor in patients with sporadic primary hyperparathyroidism, this was the only abnormal parathyroid gland in 96% of the patients. A focused parathyroidectomy could therefore be performed in such patients with an acceptable ( approximately 95%) success rate.
The results of this study suggest that drinking habits of parents are not responsible for the widely reported link between the alcohol use of parents and their offspring, per se. Rather, results suggest that parental drinking shapes the drinking motives of adolescent children, which, in turn, influences adolescent alcohol use.
These results support examining aerobic and resistance exercise training programs for improving CPS, particularly among persons with mild MS disability.
Although the incidence of hospitalisation for some common child-related injury mechanisms is projected to decrease over the coming years, others are projected to increase. It is possible that advocacy efforts might benefit from using projected injury trends. Co-ordinated cross-government action is needed to successfully implement child injury prevention strategies, particularly in the playground environment.
For clonidine tests we can omit blood sampling at time points 0 and 30 min without significantly compromising accuracy.
For most definitions of metabolic health, both metabolically healthy and unhealthy obese patients carry an elevated risk of mortality.
There is insufficient evidence to support the hypothesis that patients would benefit from routinely applying a tourniquet. The use of a tourniquet did not show any advantage to arthroscopic procedures.
Although preoperative treatment with infliximab alone does not significantly increase the incidence of postoperative complications, using both inflixiamb and cyclosporine A before colectomy in refractory ulcerative colitis is associated with high surgical morbidity.
According to the evidence, there is still potential for reducing the risk of a further ischaemic event or death in patients with MI, especially by increasing the use of beta-blockers and lipid-lowering drugs.
Patients undergoing anticoagulant or antiplatelet treatment are not a high-risk population for hematoma formation. Forty-seven percent of the patients presented postoperative hematomas beyond 6 h postoperatively, leading to the conclusion that 1-day surgery is not safe.
While the high smoking rates evidenced in anxious and depressed patients were explained by sociodemographic factors, their poor diet and low physical activity (depressed patients only) were independent of these factors. Given the impact of lifestyle modification on survival after a cardiac event, anxious and depressed patients should be a priority for cardiac rehabilitation and other secondary prevention programmes.
The postgraduate year 4 mock oral examinations and the core competency evaluations composite are each predictive of performance on American Board of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation part 2 examination. Further research into this area, with a larger sample size and with multiple institutions, would be helpful to allow for a better measurement of these evaluation tools' effectiveness.
The adoption of Medicaid case mix reimbursement was not associated with an increase in the prevalence of feeding tube use.
Pregnant patients with ASC-US or LSIL cytology rarely have colposcopically suspected CIN 2,3 at their initial colposcopy that warrants a cervical biopsy; therefore, it is reasonable to defer the initial colposcopy in patients with ASC-US and LSIL until at least 6 weeks postpartum.
Sensitivity and specificity of a single T1-weighted series in ABER position and conventional MR arthrography are comparable for assessment of rotator cuff tears.
It is premature to define an optimal configuration for home based care services. The need for introducing differing components of such care will depend on what is currently available locally. Where regular home visiting to psychotic patients plus a broad service model incorporating health and social care objectives are provided, major reductions in in-patient care are not currently to be anticipated by service re-configurations.
Seasonality of certain ARI pathogens can be explained by meteorological influences. The model presented herein is a first step toward predicting annual RSV epidemics using weather forecast data.
On an individual level, the percentage of invaded tissue does not reflect the degree of extension or progression of localized prostatic cancer. Only a single positive biopsy invaded over less than 10% of its length is statistically correlated with a good prognosis.
In this study, we observed that low-risk patients particularly benefited from the preventive treatment with sodium bicarbonate. The incidence of AKI was significantly reduced in low-risk patients while there was no statistically significant difference in the high-risk patient cohort.
In HTs with isolated PFO and H-Hcys, oral folate supplementation reduces Hcys levels both in TT and CT subjects with C667→T mutation of MTHFR. In addition the BP normalization probably contributed to reduce CV risk in these genotypes.
The combination of preoperative use of ACE inhibitors and intraoperative use of aprotinin should be avoided in cardiac surgery.
The presence of RF in AS is associated with a chronic disease of moderate intensity with chronic peripheral arthritis and fewer extra-articular manifestations. The presence of RF, not always associated with HLA-DR, seems to affect the course of AS and does not necessarily indicate an association with RA.
The present study did not show a significant clinical improvement when NIR light was used during arterial cannulation in small children. There is a large difference between time to first flashback of blood and time to successful cannulation, indicating that inserting the cannula, and not localizing the artery, is the main difficulty in arterial cannulation in children.
FNA cytology of the ovary is an accurate method for predicting benign ovarian histologic findings in carefully selected populations.
When risk factors are present, the medical condition of a patient should be reevaluated by comparing results without heavily relying on the AG obtained by a BGA.
This multicenter survey indicates that fourth-year medical students do not feel adequately prepared to respond to in-flight medical emergencies and may have sub-optimal knowledge. This study provides an initial step in identifying a deficiency in current medical education.
When analyzed in these terms, the supplementary benefit of cryopreserving supranumerical embryos appears limited.
Infants hospitalized in our newborn intensive care unit frequently had stools positive for C. difficile toxin A. When compared with infants with toxin-negative findings, infants with colonization had an increased number of days with gastrointestinal tract symptoms.
An increase in prostate volume appears to be the major contributor to a high serum PSA concentration in patients with negative biopsy for prostate cancer. However, in contrast to previous reports, there was no correlation between the degree of prostate chronic inflammation and serum PSA concentrations.
The sequence of studies does not support the hypothesis that OPV causes intussusception. The increased RI in the first study may be explained as a chance finding due to the number of risk periods examined and highlights the need for caution when looking at many risk periods without an a priori hypothesis.
The use of nutritional support might have assisted the wound healing in these patients. Although the relationship between nutritional supplementation and wound healing is not well defined, an appropriate nutritional plan is recommended if undernourishment is suspected and leg ulcers are not healing.
Low coffee consumption predicts impairment of AGT or persistence of IGT among elderly subjects.
The problem-oriented method for structuring a computerized medical record may provide a description of how physicians think or ought to think, but does not adequately support complex clinical work. While the CPOMR can be used for patients with few, simple problems who are admitted for only a short time, it is not useful for patients with a complex set of problems or for patients admitted for longer periods of time. This is in accordance with criticism of the paper-based POMR, the problematic points of which do not seem to be alleviated through computerization. The problem-oriented way of ordering information should be accompanied by a source- and time-oriented approach.
The colon does not seem to play a significant role in intestinal adaptation. However, in addition to highlighting the importance of residual small bowel length, our model highlights the benefit of multidisciplinary intestinal rehabilitation and reduction of septic complications in achieving intestinal adaptation.
It appears that the nBR and its associated psychophysical measures are not associated with psychological factors in healthy participants.
N-acetyl cystein did not increase, and actually decreased, the sensitivity and specificity of the Helicobacter pylori stool antigen test according to our results. We believe that this finding can be taken into consideration when setting up the exclusion criteria for future studies, which will use Helicobacter pylori stool antigen tests.
Late-onset OCD is characterized by female gender, lesser familial loading for OCD, and presence of precipitating factors, suggesting that it may have a distinct pathophysiology compared to juvenile- and adult-onset OCD. Systematic research is required to understand the family-genetic, neuropsychological, and neurobiological correlates of late-onset OCD.
Patients with an ISS between 0 and 15 are often triaged to Level II activation. Our data would suggest that patients older than 60 years should be a criterion for the highest level of trauma activation.
No statistically or clinically significant differences were found in combined 30-day stroke or death rates after CEA in any group defined by previous surgical trials or current ongoing high-risk stent registry. While high-risk groups may exist, the premise that operative risk is higher in patients excluded from NASCET and ACAS or eligible for ARCHeR is not supported.
For primary BCC<1 cm, no evidence was found that inflammation occurring over 1 month following C&D clears residual tumor. It was also noted that C&D fails to completely remove tumor in a large majority of primary BCC>1 cm, and in recurrent BCC.
We think that a higher quantity of parenteral amino acids than that usually administered might be useful to cancer patients and further studies on this issue are warranted.
This study contributes to the human OIH literature. However, because of the potential confounders in this study, the issue of OIH in humans remains unresolved.
The authors did not provide evidence of increased lipid peroxidation during PF. During PF the GSHPx activity declines, most probably due to Se losses. The decline of GSHPx involves the risk of deterioration of hydrogen peroxide elimination and of increased free radical formation.
In addition to the replacement of numerous retired surgeons, aging population and other factors could result in a significant increase in the demand for vascular surgical services.
Although diabetes reporting on death certificates did not improve over time, sensitivity was better for diabetes in the context of CVD deaths, probably reflecting the increasing recognition that diabetes is a major cardiovascular risk factor.
A significant proportion of patients with idiopathic rhinitis have positive nasal challenges, the vast majority to house dust mite allergen. These findings add to the weight of evidence that suggests 'localized allergy' may exist in the absence of systemic atopic markers.
These results challenge the widely held, but largely untested, view that areas of high social disadvantage have poorer access to community resources. Poor locational access to community resources among deprived neighbourhoods in New Zealand does not appear to be an explanation of poorer health in these neighbourhoods. If anything, a pro-equity distribution of community resources may be preventing even wider disparities in neighbourhood inequalities in health.
A significant proportion of patients with AUDs remitted without formal treatment. Abstinence may not be necessary for a subset of dependent patients. When counseling patients with active AUDs, primary care clinicians are advised to counsel patients about the psychosocial and medical reasons to control drinking, promote rule-setting about drinking, help patients avoid circumstances that trigger drinking, and support patients' attempts at moderating drinking rather than abstaining. Motivational interviewing (motivational enhancement therapy) may provide a useful framework for such counseling.
This study showed that androgen deficiency was present in a substantial number of patients with AAV. Testosterone was one of the predictors for physical functioning and fatigue. Testosterone may play a role in fatigue, reduced physical performance and HRQOL in male patients with AAV.
We conclude that individual nap study parameters are not very sensitive in predicting abnormal ONP findings. However, when nap study parameters are abnormal, the chance of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome is high.
Physical activity may protect against IADL limitations while not smoking, alcohol consumption, and not being depressed do not afford substantial protection among the cognitively impaired. RESULTS highlight the need for extra support for IADLs among individuals with cognitive losses.
Because cognitive measures fail to account for the majority of performance differences, noncognitive attributes must contribute to the poorer performance of URMs.
These results question the routine use of adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with rectal cancer who undergo curative surgery who have been rendered node-negative by neoadjuvant chemoradiation.
Data on which women have the greatest risk of delivering a live birth resulting from an unintended pregnancy may be extrapolated from one state to another, but the rate of such births may overestimate or underestimate the problem from one state to another.
Routine supplementation therapy with OC or VD effectively prevents symptomatic hypocalcemia after total thyroidectomy and may allow for a safe early discharge. Further studies are necessary to determine the best treatment. The combination of OC and VD may further reduce the rate of PO hypocalcemia, without inhibiting parathyroid hormone secretion.
The personal and practice characteristics of IMG physicians vary somewhat from those of their Canadian-trained colleagues. Policy efforts aimed at increasing and integrating IMG family physicians into the work force need to recognize these differences. Further research is needed before our results can be generalized to physicians practising beyond southwestern Ontario.
Sentinel lymph node detection is safe and accurate in assessing lymph node status in women with vulval cancer undergoing staging. The combined method using Tc-99m and methylene blue dye injection for SLN detection has the best detection rate. Routine ultrastaging of negative SLN improves the detection of nodal metastases.
Adolescent girls retained more weight postpartum and this was predominantly fat mass as opposed to lean body mass.
The skin cancer toolkit is an accessible online learning resource for improving confidence with skin cancer referral amongst GPs. Although we were unable to identify any immediate changes in skin cancer diagnoses or appropriate referral behaviours, research is required to evaluate its longer term effects on outcomes.
Consuming RTEC at breakfast was associated with improved weight and nutrient adequacy in AA children. AA children in all breakfast categories still had mean intakes of most nutrients below recommended levels. The implications are that consuming a breakfast meal should be encouraged in these children, and that RTEC at breakfast provides important nutrients and may help promote a healthy weight.
The presence of a visible retinal embolus is a poor diagnostic test for the detection of hemodynamically significant carotid artery stenosis in the setting of acute retinal artery occlusion. Accordingly, the presence of an embolus should not influence the decision to perform carotid Doppler ultrasonography in patients with acute retinal arterial occlusion.
Our data indicate that in primary hyperparathyroidism patients the influence of 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels on bone mineral density, if any, was overwhelmed by the effects of parathyroid hormone excess, age and body mass index. The latter unequally affected bone mineral density of various measured sites with different composition.
In pediatric nasal bone fractures, regardless of delayed or early treatment, the cosmetic outcome was consistently good, and nasal obstruction was nearly absent. Based on the time period from injury to surgery, the surgical outcome of delayed treatment group was also good.
Providing faculty with tablet computers and having peer-mentoring workshops to discuss their use was feasible and added value.
Digital mammography screening with dose-efficient photon counting enables desirable detection rates of small invasive cancers and DCIS. Higher detection rates compared with statewide performance occurred with subsequent screening but had higher recall rates.
Merging did not deteriorate performance on average despite (a) The diversity of microarray platforms used. (b) The heterogeneity of patients cohorts. (c) The heterogeneity of breast cancer disease. (d) Substantial variation of time to death or relapse. (e) The reduced number of genes in the merged data sets. Predictors derived from the merged data sets were more robust, consistent and reproducible across microarray platforms. Moreover, merging data sets from different studies helps to better understand the biases of individual studies and can lead to the identification of strong survival factors like CYB5D1 expression.
Dietary differences still exist, but the pattern of difference has changed. It is unclear, whether differences between East and West exceed regional differences in the West.
On the basis of this original study approach, we could speculate that in the centers in which more patients are treated with pegvisomant, less adverse events are reported, but the long-term effectiveness is lower than in centers with less cases, perhaps because of an inadequate patient's selection.
To date, anti-endomysium antibodies are the most reliable marker for coeliac disease: a positivity warrants an intestinal biopsy. The actual role of antibodies to gliadin, cheaper than endomysium, is during follow-up when many determinations are needed. Antibodies to dietary proteins, useful in the pre-endomysium era, only have a historical role.
In our experience, LNR correlates with adverse pathologic features and is a negative prognostic factor in patients undergoing radical resection for gastroesophageal cancer.
LUTS and perceived general health are strongly correlated. About half of the association was accounted for by age and concomitant diseases, but the other half of the crude effect would appear to be independent of these factors. Severe LUTS severely affects the general health.
Nonshadowing brightly echogenic linear foci with or without a comet tail artifact may be a benign finding. Confirmatory studies are needed for this result to be applied clinically.
A further randomized controlled study focusing on this group would appear justified and is being planned.
We found that women with S. aureus bacteremia had a greater risk of 30-day all-cause mortality than men, even when adjusting for other risk factors. However, we failed to explain this excess of mortality.
Postal screening for chlamydia does not appear to have a negative impact on overall psychological well-being and can lead to a decrease in anxiety levels among respondents. There is, however, a clear difference between men and women in when this reduction occurs.
The limited correlation between impairment and disability emphasizes the importance of factors other than pathophysiology in human illness behavior. These may include physical (pain, dominant injured hand) and conditional factors (time since surgery) or psychological factors such as depression and adapting; all mentioned can be considered as personal factors that may be different in each patient. So considering personal difference and any other condition except the impairment alone can help to better plan interventions and also diminish disability level.
Contrary to the authors' hypothesis, conclusions based on recognized, good methodology had no clear survival advantage. To better convince clinicians of the long-term utility of evidence-based medicine, better prognostic factors should be developed.
The provision of drug abuse treatment referrals to women in jail may not break the continual cycle of drug use and incarceration if other needs cannot be addressed.
Treating moderate hypertension in older people is unlikely to influence, for better or for worse, subsequent cognitive function.
With the present results, both rehabilitation programmes could be recommended, however, further studies are needed to define patients who may specifically benefit from the home rehabilitation programme. Costs should be taken into consideration.
Empirical treatment for suspected CDI cases may result in false-negative PCR results if there are delays in stool specimen collection.
RapidArc plans optimized using FFF were dosimetrically equivalent to those optimized using FF beams, showing the feasibility of SBRT treatments with FFF beams. Some improvement in healthy tissue sparing was observed when using the FFF modality due to the different beam's profile. The main advantage was a considerable reduction of beam-on time, relevant for SBRT techniques.
"Worrisome" imaging features, such as tumor dimension, nonsmooth tumor margins, peritumoral enhancement, and TTPVI, have high accuracy in the prediction of MVI in HCC.
Findings do not support a practice effect across 2 trials of the 6MWT in individuals within 1 year poststroke. Thus, a practice walk does not appear necessary. Further research is recommended to evaluate the influence of young age, acute stroke, and mild-to-moderate gait deficit on practice effects.
Looking forward in time might be a good professional strategy for deciding whether ethical paternalism in communication is justified. If there is good reason to believe that patients who later regain their autonomy will agree that paternalistic verbal actions were in their best interests, and if acting in accordance with patients' preferences can have severe negative health consequences for them, then paramedics have good reason to believe that ethical paternalism is justified.
The concordance of perinatal mortality and SGA rates when based on ethnic-specific standards, and their discordance when based on a single standard, strongly suggests that the observed ethnic differences in fetal growth are physiologic, rather than pathologic, and make a strong case for ethnic-specific standards.
A logistic regression model based on two hCG values performed with modest decreases in predictive ability in a US cohort for women at risk for EP compared with the original UK population. However, the sensitivity for EP was too low for the model to be used in clinical practice in its present form. Our data illustrate the difficulties of applying algorithms from one center to another, where the definitions of pathology may differ.
The overall incidence of type 1 diabetes in Philadelphia is increasing and is similar to other U.S. registries. These are the first data reporting a higher incidence in black children in a registry of children 0-14 years of age. The etiology of the marked increase in incidence in the black population is unknown and underscores the need to establish type 1 diabetes as a reportable disease, so that environmental risk factors may be thoroughly investigated.
Differences in the views of the communication process between patients and professionals could alert research boards, health care institutions and researchers to the need for greater transparency, trust and ethical instruction when patients are involved in clinical research.
Some epidemiological conditions that eventually could help epizootic Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus reemergence are maintained. However, an abrupt decrease in the number of susceptible equines was found in the area. Apparently, this new condition has not allowed the virus reemergence and is the biggest observed change.
The implementation of PACS has succeeded. At T 1 the physicians were welcoming PACS and this was confirmed at T 2. Experience with PACS led to an overall improved attitude toward PACS. The key factors for physicians' intentions to use PACS were the usefulness of PACS (at T 1 and overall) and the availability of support (at T 2).
Our results confirm the criticism that has been raised for using the CKD-EPI-equation for these ethnicities. An alternative eGFR-model is proposed based on a population-normalized Scr that needs further validation.
Because an erythropoietic response is seen in half of patients and even one third of those with iron-replete stores responded whereas peripheral indices had only a moderate utility in predicting response, the therapeutic trial to intravenous iron seems to be a useful tool in the management of anemia in nondialysis patients with CKD.
Prophylactic temporary stent placement across the main pancreatic-duct orifice reduces the risk of post-ERCP acute pancreatitis in patients at risk for developing this complication.
Abdominal wall silo placement in infants with CDH requiring ECMO appears to be an effective strategy for decreased abdominal domain. Further studies are warranted to determine the efficacy of such a strategy for these high-risk CDH patients.
Residual AVF after in situ bypass grafting without influence on bypass graft hemodynamics do not compromise patency and thrombose spontaneously.
The infants exhibiting a high neonatal clinical risk showed high arousal during the puncture procedure and higher physiological reactivity in the recovery phase.
This study demonstrated that placement of a nasoenteral feeding tube with a 133-cm-long, small-caliber videoendoscope is feasible, safe, and distinctly more successful than with a 92-cm-long, small-caliber standard instrument.
Patients with moderate macular thickening of 300 to 400 microm benefit most from laser treatment. OCT may help in choosing the appropriate treatment for CSME based on the degree of macular thickening. Long-term studies are warranted to confirm these findings.
Measuring ABPI automatically using the PPG technique is an effective alternative for Doppler ABPI. PPG-ABPI is completely objective, fast, and accurate.
Image-based segmentation is a promising method for pre-operative identification and localization of offending blood vessels causing HFS and TN. Using this method may prevent some unnecessary explorations on especially atypical cases with no vascular contacts. However, negative pre-operative image segmentation may not preclude one from exploration in classic cases of TN or HFS. A multicenter study with larger number of cases is recommended.
The Rex shunt should be considered in the treatment of children with idiopathic EHPVT experiencing repeated gastrointestinal bleeding episodes refractory to endoscopic treatment. Nevertheless, the role of this operation for children with post-umbilical catheterization EHPVT is yet to be clearly evaluated.
There are many problems with the use of a single mortality figure to assess performance. These include the natural statistical variability and the means by which "case-mix" is taken into consideration. This article calls for further research into mortality target setting and suggests strategies which may help provide solutions nationally and facilitate international comparison.
The results suggest that the validity related to gender differences in HADS-D is highly questionable.
The bare spot did not prove its consistency in 20 carefully selected specimens. Therefore, we conclude that this methodology is not a reliable way to intraoperatively determine bony glenoid deficiency.
Although SPADI scores demonstrated low sensitivity and responsiveness to immediate changes, the SPADI pain scale was able to detect changes in durations of less than one week. This finding should be confirmed through further prospective experimentation.
Our study suggests that the EQ-5D and ICECAP-O provide complementary information.
A number of institutions have started to screen for osteoporosis when a patient presents with a fracture of the distal radius because these patients may have an increased risk of a subsequent hip fracture. Our study implies that this may not be warranted. Implementing such a screening service from both cost and resource utilization point of view must be studied prospectively and in greater detail considering earlier screening may only be beneficial to a very small percentage of patients.
There is currently inadequate evidence to recommend haemoglobin measurement among patients with chronic kidney disease as a performance measure. In addition, most patients with chronic kidney disease have already had haemoglobin measurement, minimizing the potential benefit of a performance measure.
AP considerably improved the treatment outcome in both newly diagnosed and retreatment patients. This procedure can be considered a useful addition in managing certain patients with cavitary TB, particularly those with drug resistance.
Preoperative therapy with ACE inhibitors has an influence on renal functions. This study demonstrates that administration of ACE inhibitors provides better renal protection after cardiac surgery.
These results suggest that action video game players are equally susceptible to the costs of dividing attention in a complex task.
These findings indicate that ACS itself is not associated with an increased risk of subsequent stroke.
Ketoconazole 2% foam improved overall clinical assessment and microscopic evidence of pityriasis versicolor in all subjects with favorable patient feedback regarding the novel foam vehicle.
High levels of both oxycodone and its major metabolite are present in saliva, but this does not provide a valid substitute for plasma when monitoring oxycodone levels for PK studies or therapeutic monitoring.
A detailed appreciation of participant engagement with the trial can provide a strong basis for interpretation of trial outcome data, and in this instance does help explain the null finding. Other findings also indicate the need for dedicated studies of public understanding of the nature of alcohol problems, and their implications for receptivity to brief interventions.
We wish to draw attention to the potential toxicity of gamma butyrolactone containing nail polish removers and the need for appropriate labeling of product packaging. Since alternative products are available, these products should be removed from the market.
Assessment of both daytime and night-time BP is essential and superior over clinic BP in CV risk evaluation in patients with coronary artery disease confirmed in coronary angiography.
Late-onset schizophrenia should be considered a subtype of schizophrenia.
Some SA patients have demographic, clinical and therapeutic features similar to B-II patients and they might just be a Bipolar-III sub-group with a higher level of complains to social situations and without spontaneous hypomania during lifetime.
There was a positive correlation between preoperative complaint duration and squamous metaplasia; and there was also a positive correlation between the preoperative complaint duration and the total Lund-Mackay score. There was no histopathological difference between the polypoid infiltration of the front and rear group sinuses.
The community sample results in Slovenia support the already reported association between diabetes mellitus and depression. Furthermore, social network analysis offered some potentially relevant explanation for comorbidity of diabetes mellitus and depressive symptoms.
The more previous sinus surgeries, the smaller the chance for patients to recover their olfactory function after each surgical revision.
These results suggest that clinical pharmacists had no significant impact on HRQOL as measured by the SF-36 for veterans at high risk for medication-related problems.
The benefit does not justify the effort involved in the ranking task. For this reason, the addition of the ranking task to the present EQ-5D-5L valuation protocol is not an attractive option.
Consultant team leaders improve team performance, resulting in shorter times to diagnostic imaging, and faster transfer to haemorrhage control. The greatest benefit seems to be for bleeding patients. Clinical outcomes were similar for trainees and consultants in our major trauma centre.
Although a trend toward improved survival with surgery was observed, it was noted most strongly in patients with ER/PR positive and/or HER-2/neu-amplified disease. This suggests that the impact of local control is greatest in the presence of effective targeted therapy, and supports the need for further study to define patient subsets that will benefit most.
Our findings suggest that lifestyle modification may be beneficial in the prevention of cardiovascular mortality for persons who are and are not overweight.
Physicians' economic profile rankings are not greatly affected by the presence or absence of prescriber identifying information in pharmacy claims. If pharmacy claims are missing altogether, however, valid economic profiling remains feasible for some clinical specialties but not for others.
The findings strengthen the hypothesis that alcohol experiences during early adolescence facilitate drinking to regulate negative affect as an adverse coping strategy which may represent the starting point of a vicious circle comprising drinking to relieve stress and increased stress as a consequence of drinking.
Most patients with OPD and glaucoma continued to receive topical beta-blockers, mostly noncardioselective beta-blockers. A central EMR with a comprehensive and highly available medical history reduced the prescription of beta-blockers to OPD patients, but rates remained unacceptably high.
Access block continues to increase across NSW, whatever the definition used. We recommend that hospitals in NSW and Australia move to the use of one standard definition of access block, as our study suggests there is no significant additional information emerging from the use of multiple definitions.
With the expected increase in demand for joint replacement, there needs to be a re-examination of assessment procedures of patients listed for joint replacement. The use of measurement tools to assess symptoms such as pain and physical function would be one way forward.
This study provides insight into GDM-related complications rates and the benefits of intervention in a large cohort of women with levels of hyperglycemia lower than those currently recommended for diagnosis of GDM. These findings suggest a continuous association between adverse outcomes and maternal hyperglycemia and highlight the important role of maternal risk factors other than glycemic results in the development of pregnancy-related complications. Milder forms of hyperglycemia that would not be identified by IADPSG guidelines may benefit from treatment.
Transient O2 administration increases reticulocyte count after traumatic hip surgery. Hospital LOS also was shorter in the O2 group than the control group. Allogeneic red blood cell transfusion was reduced in the O2 group but it was not due to the NOP mechanism.
Spina bifida cystica was diagnosed mostly in children whose mothers ingested antimalarial drugs during the first trimester of gestation. There may be a need to critically evaluate the contribution of antimalarial drugs to the etiopathogenesis of this malformation and develop safer antimalarial treatment in pregnancy.
AP elevated the levels of CRP, IL-2, and IL-6 in rat blood serum, causing reversible changes in the aortic arch, myocardium, and spleen as well as irreversible changes in the liver.
Maternal control of solid feeding can moderate infant weight gain.
HIV incidence and mortality, and perhaps sexual risk, are lower in higher socioeconomic groups. Reduced vulnerability to infection, led by the relatively well off, is a positive trend, but in the absence of analogous developments in vulnerable groups, HIV threatens to become a disease of the poor.
Better visuospatial ability relates to improved performance on a robotic surgery simulator.
The flowable resin-based composites tested (Fl, TF, and WA) used to bond metal orthodontic brackets to bovine enamel had low mean TBS values but acceptable ARI mean scores.
The results support the null hypothesis. The conclusions are limited to the resolution of the technology employed and to the flight envelopes and +Gz exposure in the current generation of fighter aircraft.
Seasonal variation in nocturia, but not other frequency-volume parameters, symptom severity or uroflowmetry parameters, is significant in men with lower urinary tract symptom. Future work should consider the impact of seasonal variation in lower urinary tract symptoms in both sexes across a wider range of climates.
These data suggest that the smooth AV node function curve consists of two distinct components representing both fast and slow AV node pathways even when the typical discontinuity is absent.
This result suggests that the time difference does not imply high costs to the second stickleback male to ejaculate. Slow fertilization (and concomitant prolonged longevity of sperm) may be the result of sexual conflict in which females aimed at complete fertilization and/or multiple paternity.
Restrictive contracts may be of benefit in addressing health inequalities. PCTs need to carefully consider the impact of ending restrictive contracts on their local populations.
Our results suggest that further surgery is often indicated in patients with node positive or multifocal cancers or positive margins after BCS since residual disease cannot be ruled out. Re-excision or mastectomy could be omitted in patients with close margins with favorable factors such unifocal tumor or node negative disease.
Our results suggest that beside the beneficial antioxidative effects of vitamin E, tocopherol has in respect to AD also a potency to increase the amyloid-β level, which differ for the analysed tocopherols. We therefore recommend that further studies are needed to clarify the potential role of these various vitamin E species in respect to AD and to identify the form which comprises an antioxidative property without having an amyloidogenic potential.
These findings raise concerns regarding the feasibility of opportunistic screening in general practice, particularly for those with highest prevalence of chlamydia--teenage women.
The prevalence of injuries to the meniscus and articular cartilage in the medial compartment of the knee is increased with increasing time from ACL injury to reconstruction. This relationship may vary depending on patient age. Patients over the age of 22 exhibit a higher prevalence of intra-articular injury with delayed reconstruction, while no such differences are noted among younger patients.
The largest errors in measurements were associated with an extraordinary pelvic tilt. In order to get a valuable measurement for measuring cup position after THA on pelvic radiographs by this vector arithmetic method, there is a need for a correct postoperative ap view, with special regards to the pelvic tilt for the future.
It seems that EAEC could not comprise a significant problem in Poland but it should be taken in to account as a potential etiologic factor of diarrhea.
Our study identified factors associated with low clinical trial participation in AYA patients with cancer. These findings support the continued need to improve access to clinical trials and innovative treatments for this population, which may ultimately translate into improved survival.
Through these discursive practices we can understand how staff maintain a monopoly over the truth and perpetuate claims about the inevitability of restraint use.
A histological inflammatory finding at the initial prostate biopsy was negatively associated with prostate cancer detection in repeat biopsy. This result could be useful to determine the need for repeat prostate biopsy in patients with persistently elevated prostate-specific antigen.
In planning cost-effective navigation programs, special considerations should be made regarding the characteristics of the disease, program participants, and the initial screening test that determines program eligibility.
Our study demonstrated no effect of an educational intervention designed to decrease ER visits. Limitations of our study, however, suggest that further attempts to educate parents in this setting may still be warranted.
In the present study, immunohistochemical study of HMGB1 in early tongue squamous cell carcinoma did not appear to be very useful for predicting occult neck metastasis. Further study is necessary to clarify the relationship between HMGB1 expression and late neck metastasis in early tongue squamous cell carcinoma.
This study demonstrates that anchorless repair techniques using transosseous sutures result in significantly lower failure loads than a repair model utilizing anchors in a TOE construct.
Trends in tobacco use reflect an underutilization of preventive measures in general, and health education measures in particular. Financial resources appropriated for health education and information were reduced by 90% during the 1980s.
ESD with a combination of small-caliber-tip transparent hood and flex knife is a safe and effective treatment for superficial esophageal neoplasia in elderly and nonelderly patients.
IL-17 levels are altered in non-obese females with PCOS and may influence gingival inflammation. Additional studies are warranted to clarify the relationship between PCOS and gingivitis.
Missing predisposing factors in unprovoked PE might explain the greater delay in diagnosis in recurrent PE. Physicians should focus more on informing patients about the possibility of PE recurrence and associated symptoms and thereby enable earlier diagnosis in recurrent PE.
Our findings are difficult to reconcile with the view that the response decrement of AEP components after stimulus repetition is modulated by sensitization and habituation, as no evidence for either of these two processes could be obtained.
Simultaneous CAF-1-mediated deregulation of cell proliferation and DNA repair takes place in aggressive SCC of the tongue. Therefore, the evaluation of CAF-1 expression may be a valuable tool for evaluation of the biological behaviour of these tumours. This may be relevant to the introduction of improved follow-up protocols and/or alternative therapeutic regimens.
Despite typically being performed in patients with smaller tumors, laparoscopic adrenalectomy for ACC is associated with higher rates of recurrence, particularly peritoneal recurrence. For patients with known or suspected ACC, the oncologic benefits of open resection outweigh the short-term benefits of minimally invasive surgery.
The current study demonstrates that IFNalpha is an inhibitor of CRP promoter activity and CRP secretion. This finding concords with previous observations of up-regulated IFNalpha and a muted CRP response during SLE disease flares. Given the fundamental role of both IFNalpha and CRP in the immune response, our results are of importance for understanding the pathogenesis of SLE and may also contribute to understanding the differences in the CRP response between viral and bacterial infections.
In our sample of patients with ABAC, there was no specific CT appearance, which would correlate with either an EGFR mutation or a KRAS mutation, when compared with a control group of patients who did not have these mutations.
Successful endografting requires endovascular expertise in addition to a well-developed surgical environment to increase applicability and decrease patient risk. Despite advances in endovascular technology, hybrid techniques will continue to be required to achieve good overall success rates.
Based on the information used in this study, lumbar spine plain film radiographs should be obtained in the PA position.
More than 60% of variation in maximally attained FEV(1) and FVC is explained by genetic factors. Moreover, these results suggest that leptin may be important in the determination of maximally attainable lung function.
Delta inhibin B had the best positive association with the number of eggs collected and basal AMH is the single best predictor of poor response. AFC has a significant association with the number of eggs collected and is predictive of clinical pregnancy. It is evident that a single parameter is of limited value in predicting ovarian response. However, we have demonstrated a cumulative score using all the above markers could be useful in predicting poor response.
MRSA strains associated with health-care were responsible for almost all cases of MRSA bacteraemia on admission to hospital during the period studied. Despite this the majority of cases with MRSA admission bacteraemia were admitted from their own homes. Further research is needed into the determinants of MRSA bacteraemia among patients outside hospital.
: Our study suggests that rotavirus infection does not seem to place children at increased risk for AP-FGIDs at long-term follow-up. Larger, prospective studies should be conducted to evaluate whether rotavirus gastroenteritis leads to AP-FGIDs in children.
To maintain the nasal dorsal sidewall unit, superior, central dorsal, and nasal sidewall defects have traditionally been reconstructed using a variety of techniques, including skin grafts and regional flaps, such as glabellar flaps and frontal flaps. We demonstrate that creation of the nasal dorsal sidewall unit is often not necessary, and excellent results can be achieved through the expanded use of cheek advancement flaps.
These clinical observations support other case reports that suggest the existence of a potential correlation between excessive energy drink consumption and relapse among psychiatric populations.
Our findings demonstrate a new concept of how C pneumoniae activates platelets and thereby may cause atherosclerosis and thrombotic vascular occlusion.
Although overall survival remains poor, treatment with 5-FU and radiotherapy might benefit some patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer.
Upper digestive endoscopy is a reliable method for the diagnosis of Candida albicans esophagitis. However, mycological confirmation is warranted.
These results suggest that acantholysis and the inhibition of TGase activity could be two related phenomena.
Renal impairment does not protect from gout. There may be a familial factor in the development of gout that is independent from the familial tendency for hyperuricemia.
This study shows that children presenting for elective outpatient surgery are suffering from a considerable amount of pre-operative discomfort because of excessive fasting. Strategies to guarantee minimal fasting at hospital admission are urgently needed.
Results show significant changes among both periods. Differences by sex pointed out the need of a differential analysis of the problem. Contribute to elaborate new research questions to be addressed in the future to work on the prevention of this public health problem.
Diagnostic laparoscopy in preparation for operative procedures (especially for secondary infertile women) should be performed initially in all unexplained infertile patients with or without risk factors related to pelvic pathologies.
Choosing therapy for a patient with endocarditis and a neurologic change remains a difficult challenge. Initial findings of nonfocal, global dysfunction on examination are a predictor of a poor outcome. By comparing surgical and medical groups derived from the same series of patients, it is clear that patients with bacterial endocarditis and central nervous system changes face substantial mortality regardless of intervention. However, these data demonstrate that when compared with a similar group of medical patients, surgical patients who require and receive operation early in the course of their illness do comparatively well. Improving outcomes by delaying surgical intervention may serve to "select out" hardier patients but will lead to the death of patients who might benefit from such intervention.
The LNR and the evaluation of the HER2 overexpression might be useful since they correlate with survival, might identify patients with a higher risk of recurrence, and might select patients for a tailored medical treatment.
Open reduction and internal fixation of the fibula fracture in tibial plafond fractures treated with external fixation that spans the ankle is associated with a significant rate of complications, and good clinical results may be obtained without fixing the fibula.
Admission characteristics with statistically significant risk ratios have low predictive values because of the extremely low rate of repeat cesarean delivery in this population. A larger series is needed to study TOL outcomes in patients with large fetuses who are being induced. We conclude that until risk factors with high predictive value for repeat cesarean delivery are identified, all eligible patients should be encouraged to undergo a TOL.
Our results show that simpler settings with single-zone, high-rate programming is associated with ICD shock rates and long-term mortality that does not appear to be worse when compared with contemporary studies which include multizone ICD programming with antitachycardia pacing activated.
Horseshoe kidney poses special technical problems during retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy for testicular tumors due to anomalous renal and intra-abdominal vascular patterns. Helical computerized tomography angiography is useful for meticulous surgical planning and the safe performance of surgery in this setting.
The previously noted relationship between elevated AFI and BW centiles in the general patient population is linear in diabetic patients with poor glycemic control.
The evaluation indicates the potential merits of e-practice development, particularly for nurses who feel geographically and professionally isolated or disenchanted with available continuing professional development opportunities. Participation in the virtual college appeared to enrich practice and foster a culture of change.
We do not recommend early TI by EMS-paramedics in children with a GCS of 3-4. The rate of complications of this procedure is unacceptably high. BVMV is the preferred choice for ventilation by paramedics, whenever possible. Out-of-hospital TI performed by HMT is safe and effective. The HMT has skills in advanced airway management not provided by the EMS.
Our analyses support the notion that the Charales are not the closest living relatives of embryophytes. Instead, the Zygnematales or a clade consisting of Zygnematales and Coleochaetales are most likely the sister group of embryophytes. Although this result is in agreement with a previously published phylogenetic study of chloroplast genomes, additional data are needed to confirm this conclusion. A Zygnematales/embryophyte sister group relationship has important implications for early land plant evolution. If substantiated, it should allow us to address important questions regarding the primary adaptations of viridiplants during the conquest of land. Clearly, the biology of the Zygnematales will receive renewed interest in the future.
In the past a reduction of abrasion was targeted primarily by the optimisation of the bearing surfaces and tribology. The interpretation of our findings indicates that different mechanisms of origin in terms of tissue contamination with wear debris and the alloy should be included in the improvement of implants or implantation techniques.
most burns require assessment, debridement, and dressing changes. Grafting is rarely necessary. Patients are transferred because of a lack of training, and patients suffer economic burden and treatment delay. Savings could be realized were patients treated locally with select burn center referral. Video consultation and mentoring can help with triage and care of minor burns. Major burns require burn center referral. International practice reinforces these results.
The results of our study have shown that UM decreases after the TOT procedure in the UH group but not in the non-UH group. The cure rate was not lower in the non-UH group compared with that in the UH group. Our findings suggest that the lack of UM should not be considered a factor indicating a high risk of failure after the TOT procedure.
Administration of TXA before surgery significantly reduces perioperative bleeding in patients undergoing short segment pedicle screw fixation for thoracolumbar spine fractures.
Superselective embolization for active colonic diverticular hemorrhage is safe and effective and should be considered as a first line treatment if possible and available. The procedure could act as a bridge to a subsequent more definitive elective surgery or be definitive as seen in over 50% of our patients over a period of 40 months.
Palliative resection of primary CRC should be pursued in patients with unresectable distant metastasis (without carcinomatosis), and, intraoperatively, whenever the primary tumor is technically resectable.
At the population level, and from a longitudinal perspective, unresolved infertility is less burdensome than findings from studies on women seeking help for infertility would suggest.
Findings indicate that the impact of depression on HRQoL could be mediated by cardiac anxiety, awareness of somatic symptoms, and negative illness perceptions, but not maladaptive health behaviors. Psychological interventions targeting these mediators have potential to improve HRQoL in people with CHD.
Age older than 55 years and more than three chronic conditions were independent factors associated with a lower cure rate in patients implanted with a sacral neuromodulator for refractory urge incontinence. A neurologic condition may be associated with a decrease in the cure rate.
A combination of different MR parameters on a pixel-by-pixel basis in individual patients enables better identification of the tumour type, direction of proliferation and assessment of the tumour extension.
The EuroSCORE has a good discriminatory ability in predicting early mortality after cardiac surgery as well as in patients rejected for cardiac surgery. Both EuroSCORE risk prediction model forms are a suitable mortality predictor in Czech cardiac patients.
The concordance between electrical dyssynchrony assessed by QRS duration and mechanical dyssynchrony assessed by myocardial strain is dependent upon the underlying cardiomyopathy. This observation may improve our understanding of the various responses observed in CRT patients.
Applying the closed medication system was associated with reduced BSI rates in our unit. This protocol was easily reproducible in our environment and showed immediate results. Serious attempts to share data can potentially optimize outcomes and standardize policies and practices among NICUs.
The accuracy of interpretation of potential STEMI ECGs was modest among emergency physicians. The study supports the notion that ECG interpretation for establishing a STEMI diagnosis lacks the necessary sensitivity and specificity to be considered a reliable 'stand-alone' diagnostic test.
The P-T amplitude measurement method identified significant decrements in amplitude because repeated runs were obtained, whereas the P-B method did not. These findings suggest that a P-T method is more sensitive to some P1 electrophysiological activity than is a P-B measure.
The button Bentall procedure can be performed with excellent short-term and long-term results in relatively uncomplicated elective patients in whom aortic valve disease is combined with dilatation of the ascending aorta. Results of this traditional operation are the standard against which the long-term outcome of newer approaches, such as valve-sparing operations, should be compared.
Patients who died experienced more episodes of hyperglycemia, spontaneous hypoglycemia and greater variation in the daily glycemia level. Daily glycemia variation is more reliable than a mean glycemic level in evaluating glucose homeostasis in septic patients. Few episodes of severe insulin-induced hypoglycemia occurred while using the nurse-controlled insulin therapy protocol.
In patients with chronic pulmonary thromboembolism, increased lung density on CT is caused by hyperperfused lung parenchyma distally to patent pulmonary arteries. SPECT proves to be more sensitive in diagnosing perfusion inhomogeneities.
This study shows that a thrombin-based topical haemostatic reduces the need for blood transfusion in TKR revision surgery.
The ACL graft of the RP group showed higher signal intensity in the early stage and lower signal intensity in the late stage compared to that of the RS group. The ligamentization of grafts in the RP group proceeded more quickly. Preserving the remnant in ACL reconstruction appears to have a positive effect on ligamentization.
The results of the present study suggested that the FLC fractions may possess little or no antigen-binding activity, and that therefore, they may not serve as useful diagnostic markers in patients with allergy.
Cosmetic scalp trauma occurred in 21% of our newborns delivered by vacuum extraction and was more common after longer vacuum applications, longer second stages, and paramedian cup placement.
Significant between-site variation in the analysis adjusted for constitutional factors points to problems with standardization; thus, a broad application of this instrument does not seem to be advisable.
1. Ad/CA and Ad/SC tumors were found to represent 12.6% and 3.6%, respectively, of a large series (N = 11,157) of cervical cancers diagnosed in 1984 and 1990 and reported to the Commission on Cancer of the American College of Surgeons. 2. Two thirds of women with early clinical stage disease (IA, IB, IIA) had hysterectomy as all or part of their primary therapy. 3. No significant differences were found in 5-year survival among the three tissue types in any clinical stage except American Joint Committee on Cancer stage II.
Low-dose remifentanil infusion with intermittent bolus injections can provide adequate sedation, amnesia and better analgesia than propofol infusion during colonoscopy. However, remifentanil-induced nausea and vomiting may be a problem during the recovery phase.
Our findings suggest that the types of endometrial preparation may have no significant effect on the clinical outcomes of vitrified blastocyst ET. Hormonal priming does not appear to be a prerequisite for endometrial preparation for vitrified blastocyst ET.
Breast cancer in Kijabe is an advanced-stage disease, comprised mainly of poorly differentiated cancers that are less likely to be hormone sensitive (across all stages of disease). ER/PR testing of all those affected by breast cancer should be supported as a global priority in cancer control. International and inter-African research collaborations are needed to allow genetic detailing of tumours in indigenous Africans to assess possible racial heterogeneity in the biology of breast cancer.
We suggest that by the preoperative     evaluation of CT scans measurements the SWA, it is possible to estimate the MCF     and the type of SOF. This knowledge may be important for all surgeries requiring     removal of the sphenoid wing and these region pathologies.
Treatment decisions with regard to thrombolysis in acute stroke patients should be based on parameters of cerebral perfusion, assessment of collateral blood flow and presence of potentially salvageable tissue. Modern neuroimaging techniques that can rapidly assess these variables, such as DWI/PWI MRI and MRA, can improve the current selection of patients who are likely to benefit from thrombolysis and extend its benefit to patients who would otherwise be excluded, such as those with seizures at stroke onset.
The recovery curves after ankle fractures were different based on syndesmotic injury. However, the difference was at the limit of clinical significance. Syndesmotic injury has a slightly detrimental effect on outcomes of operatively treated Weber B SE4 fractures.
: A combination of cerebral blood flow promoting measures and administration of alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl-nitrone and cyclosporine-A improved 24 h neurological outcome after 8 min of experimental normothermic cardiac arrest, indicating an ongoing neuronal injury in the reperfusion phase.
Emergent LC for acute cholecystitis is effective and safe in a low-volume setting in the Caribbean. However, the operations are technically demanding and should be performed by trained laparoscopic surgeons.
Wider sharing of DCD kidneys should be encouraged, as it does not compromise clinical outcomes. A transparent and well-established sharing agreement, with no delays in the offering of DCD kidneys, may lead to an improvement in CIT.
There were no differences in anterior knee pain, range of motion, extensor lag, or MSTS score between the patients with and those without patellar resurfacing. There were no cases of patellar component loosening or revision. In light of the similar outcomes in the two groups, the decision to resurface should be left up to the individual surgeon, who should take into account preoperative peripatellar pain and the status of the patella at the time of resection.
Although students who acted as PAL tutors performed better than students who did not in final-year examinations, this difference was small and attributable to the students' background academic abilities. High-achieving students appear to be self-selecting as peer-tutors and their enhanced performance in LSOs may reflect their inherent academic abilities. Although peer-tutoring in itself did not lead to enhanced examination performance, further studies are required as many factors, such as the proximity of examinations and previous tutoring, can potentially affect the relationship between peer-tutoring experience and examination performance.
Some adult patients with dysphagia and less than 15 eos per HPF have similar endoscopic findings and clinical course to patients meeting the consensus definition of EoE. Further evaluation of patients with low grade esophageal eosinophilia is needed.
These findings underscore the need for greater attention to obesity in chronically homeless adults and demonstrate a food insecurity-obesity paradox or poverty-obesity link.
Despite such operational breadth, cyclothymia was nonetheless largely limited to the soft end of the bipolar spectrum where labile moods and depressive recurrence predominate. In this sense, it is natural to place it on the border of manic-depressive psychosis. Although Kurt Schneider was the first to describe the "labile psychopath" [personality], he believed it was unrelated to his narrow concept of cyclothymia, which he used synonymously with manic-depressive psychosis. Our data do not support his position. Instead, they support both Kretchmer's and Falret's views.
Modulation of asymmetric dimethylarginine concentration by insulin at least partly explains the beneficial effects found in critically ill patients receiving intensive insulin therapy.
Korean War GI Bill eligibility predicted smaller socioeconomic disparities in depression markers.
No interventional behavioural testing was required to discriminate between 3 typical and 2 atypical ethologically-defined behavioural profiles, reminiscent of certain depressive-like and anxiety-like symptoms. The use of unbiased behavioural observations might, thus, allow the identification of animal models of human mental/behavioural disorders and their most appropriate control groups.
In the preoperative staging of patients with clinical Stage T1c-T2 PCa and a prostate-specific antigen level<10 ng/mL who had undergone SPBx, quantitative histologic examination demonstrated good accuracy in predicting for non-OC PCa only when all pathological variables were considered.
We concluded that doxycycline has role in apoptosis induction in the colorectal cancer. However, it did not show any synergy with platinum compounds in the colorectal cancer cells. This study also pointed towards possible caspase-independent actions of doxycycline with cisplatin and oxaliplatin. However, further work is required to underpin the mechanisms of actions of doxycycline.
Pulsatile CPB preserves renal function better than standard CPB even in patients older than 65. CPB could be adopted as the procedure of choice in this subgroup of patients.
In children, there was no significant difference in terms of wound infection after applying dressing or leaving the clean surgical wounds exposed without any dressing after completion of wound closure. Dressing clean surgical wounds may be unnecessary.
This study shows evidence that development in head laterality is influenced by the breech presentation. The discussion addresses possible explanations for the differences we found between the breech and cephalic fetuses.
Obtaining a UDS on patients who presented to the pediatric ED for medical clearance before psychiatric evaluation did not alter medical decision for clearance nor necessitate any change in management or interventions before psychiatric evaluation.
Depression is not simply a marker of clinical indicators that predict all-cause mortality after ACS. This strengthens the assertion that there is something unique in the association between depression and post-ACS prognosis, independent of known prognostic markers.
Confirmation of central venous catheter placement by dynamic sonographic visualization of a saline flush with exclusion of pneumothorax is an accurate, safe, and more efficient method than confirmation by chest radiography. It allows the central line to be used immediately, expediting patient care.
UKCAT can facilitate the independent selection of appropriate candidates for interview when used as described. However, UKCAT is not predictive of success at interview. The long-term predictive validity of UKCAT is currently under investigation. Therefore, we conclude that UKCAT is best viewed as a useful adjunct to current selection processes.
Cancer patients do not correlate CAM use with spiritual concerns but expect their physicians to attend to spiritual themes. Health care providers involved in oncology cancer care should emphasize spiritual as well as CAM themes. The integration of these themes into a biopsychosocial-spiritual approach may enrich the dialogue between patients and health providers.
Although a high correlation was found between the insertional torque of pedicle screws and bone mineral density in vivo, the insertional torque could not objectively predict screw loosening.
An unexpectedly large SCI population was uncovered; a population largely hidden due to the uncoordinated, fragmented and inconsistently collected information held within different organisations. As life expectancy rapidly increases for those with SCI, coupled with an accelerated ageing general population, this hidden SCI population can be expected to grow. A single, well-managed and coordinated national SCI registry is urgently needed in New Zealand for planning and delivery of services, especially for those developing age-related complex interwoven secondary conditions.
Metformin was often used in patients with contraindications to its use, or in higher than recommended dosages. Reconsideration of the official prescribing information for metformin may be warranted as the risk of harm appears to be very low.
Raised preoperative IL-6 levels are predictors of both early graft occlusion and late cardiovascular events after CABG. Elevated preoperative CRP levels can predict early graft occlusion after CABG. Endothelin did not differ between the two groups.
Nurse practitioners in A&E are able to interpret radiographs to a standard equal to senior house officers with three to five months' experience. Those nurse practitioners actively interpreting radiographs as part of their role in minor injury units are able to interpret radiographs to the same standard as senior house officers with more than five months' experience.
The use of evidence-based medical therapy is lower in patients with NOCAD compared with those with OCAD. Improved awareness among health care providers and a unified effort to implement secondary prevention strategies may help correct such deficiencies.
Firefighter/EMT-Bs, working without protocols or medical criteria, cannot always safely determine which patients may require ALS intervention.
FLAIR, when interpreted in concert with pre- and postgadolinium T1-weighted images, may be useful in differentiating glioma from metastasis when a solitary enhancing cerebral lesion is present. The presence of nonenhancing adjacent cortical involvement in a solitary enhancing lesion is a frequent and relatively specific sign.
Written injury prevention messages with discharge instructions were well received by parents of children in a pediatric ED. The ED may be a setting where families could receive injury prevention education.
The results of this study support the use of the ARAT at ordinary tables roughly similar in height to that specially designed for use with the ARAT.
Tumour plaques were the commonest pattern of recurrent axillary disease. Forty-eight percent of the patients had metastatic deposits identified by MRI. Magnetic resonance imaging had excellent specificity (100%) and good sensitivity (89%) for recurrent axillary tumour compared with outcome at 1 year, which was improved by non-dynamic administration of Gd-DTPA in 32% of the subset who received it.
Including area deprivation measures helped identify an influence of especially regional income and occupational deprivation on antibiotic prescriptions for children. Regional analysis such as this can help identify specific regions and groups of persons to address information programs on the risks of preventable antibiotic consumption and alternative treatment methods.
It appears that the first 25 amino acids of the MP19 molecule are sufficient to target the protein to the cell membrane, and apparently integrate into the membrane. With the addition of more amino acids, the polypeptide distributes in the membrane similarly to that of the intact MP19 molecule. It appears that the first 25 amino acids of the MP19 molecule is, indeed, a membrane signal and integration sequence. Also, at least part of these 25 amino acids must integrate into the cell membrane, but not extend through the cell membrane.
Endoscopic saphenous vein harvesting as part of a less invasive concept in cardiac surgery is a safe and after the learning curve, fast alternative to harvest the saphenous graft. The cosmetic result is excellent and the complication rate seems to be lower. It must be noted however, that the cost effectiveness of the method has to be proved and that further histological and functional studies are needed in order to check the intimal structure of the vein.
After blind intubation, 37% of double-lumen tubes required repositioning by means of flexible bronchoscopy, despite positive evaluation made by the anesthesiologist. Our data suggests that initial bronchoscopic assessment should be made with the patient still in the supine position, and confirms that flexible bronchoscopy is useful in verifying the correct position of double-lumen tubes or adjusting possible misplacements, before starting thoracic surgery.
Prophylactic SSRI antidepressants can significantly reduce the incidence of PEG-IFN-α/RBV-associated depression in patients with CHC, with good safety and tolerability, without reduction of SVR.
We concluded that Im-20 can be omitted in at least 61% of the patients.
With one exception, sexual minority men were at equivalent or lower risk of hazardous drinking than heterosexual men. The Black-White advantage observed in other alcohol studies was observed in our study and was heightened among sexual minority men, suggesting the presence of protective factors that curb hazardous drinking. Additional research is necessary to identify the mechanisms responsible for these patterns.
The sudden left-sided deafness likely resulted from ischemia, possibly due to migraine-associated vasospasm. Presumably, the right ear suffered only minimal damage when the patient was 50 years old, but this damage later led to the development of delayed endolymphatic hydrops on the right. Otolithic crises are thought to result from pressure changes across the utricular macule. We speculate that loss of hair cells in the utricular macule resulted from a collapse of the utricular membrane onto the macule.
geriatric screening can detect unidentified problems in general practice. Once detected and dealt with, a high proportion of the undetected problems showed improvement. GPs focussed more on medical, while patients more on psychosocial issues. To increase the outcome of screening, it is necessary to discuss the relevance assessed by the patient.
IMRT+S is cost-effective compared to IMRT-O based on its potential to reduce radiotherapy-related toxicity.
The risk of thyroid disease seems related to IFN beta-1b treatment during the first year only, particularly in patients with preexisting thyroiditis. Furthermore, incident thyroid dysfunction is generally transient and mild in degree. Indeed, we recommend a routine systematic thyroid assessment only in patients with baseline thyroiditis. During the first year of therapy, serum thyroid-stimulating hormone measurement should suffice as first line test; a systematic thyroid assessment is only useful for those patients with incidental and persistent dysfunction. Further studies with many patients will be necessary to confirm our suggestions as broad clinical guidelines.
The anastomosis was completed 65% faster using 3D with equal, if not greater, accuracy. Drill 1 was improved to a greater degree than drill 2, suggesting most benefit of 3D views during knot tying. Use of three dimensions outperformed two dimensions in both groups. Surgeons can immediately benefit from 3D viewing during robotic surgery.
The human observer's operating point should be a primary consideration in designing an observer performance study. Although in general, the ROC-type rating paradigm provides more detailed information on the characteristics of different modes, it does not reflect the actual operating point adopted by human observers. There are application-driven scenarios in which analysis based on binary responses may provide statistical advantages.
The proportion of rural residents who had a regular doctor increased between 1995 and 2001. Disparities between those who had a regular doctor and those with a frequently changing doctor diminished.
There are notable differences in both short- and long-term outcomes after definitive radiation for prostate cancer depending on the failure definition applied. Failure definitions must be tested objectively for sensitivity and specificity in predicting clinical outcome, and it is only in this manner that reasonable choices can be made. Although traditional surgical-type failure definitions do not seem applicable to patients treated with external beam radiation, further analysis of definitions across multiple therapeutic modalities is necessary to determine whether a universal failure definition might be feasible, at least for research and comparative purposes.
This prospective study has found a relationship between bacterial colonisation of the tonsillar fossa and post-tonsillectomy haemorrhage. This suggests that there may be an argument for the use of antibiotics in those cases with positive pre-operative cultures. In view of the types of pathogens isolated, we feel that the management of a post-tonsillectomy bleed should include a beta lactamase inhibiting antibiotic.
Digital panoramic images may have some diagnostic value for detecting CAAs and this early diagnosis could potentially increase the length and quality of life for people with CAAs.
Contrary to McNeal's classical prostatic anatomy teaching, the central gland extends below the verumontanum in 95% of men over 43, likely due to deformation of the gland by benign prostatic hyperplasia. It is important for pathologists to be aware of this observation for accurate characterization of the zonal origin of prostate cancer below the level of the verumontanum.
The role of MRI in the management of clinical stage T(1c) prostate cancer is limited, as it altered the management of only 1.3% of our patients. The cost v the value of this study should be discussed with the patient before MRI is prescribed.
Those in the SWT group had higher weekly costs of medication at admission, and reached better HRQoL 3 months earlier than those in the NFWT group, but the latter had better HRQoL after operation. Otherwise, the length of WT was not associated with different health and HRQoL outcomes in the groups.
According to the comparison of the two groups, we conclude that there is no need to use postoperative antibiotics to prevent surgical site infections.
The indiscriminate use of SLNB in patients with DCIS seems excessive. Our study suggests that patients with a mass on clinical examination or mammogram have an increased risk of invasive disease at the time of definitive operative procedure and should undergo SLNB at the initial procedure. In addition, SLNB should be performed in patients undergoing mastectomy because mastectomy precludes SLNB if invasive disease is subsequently discovered.
There are functional differences in the regulation of the enteric nervous system between the PIAS and DIAS. Contraction reaction via excitatory nerves, especially cholinergic nerves, was mainly involved in the regulation of enteric nerve responses to EFS in the DIAS. Relaxation reaction via inhibitory nerves, especially NANC inhibitory nerves, was mainly involved in the regulation of enteric nerve responses to EFS in the PIAS.
We found no clinically relevant difference in the INR values of patients who did or did not develop pulmonary embolism. The risk of bleeding should be weighed against the risk of pulmonary embolism when determining an appropriate target INR for each patient, as an INR less than 2 may reduce the risk of bleeding while still protecting against pulmonary embolism.
Bereaved family members of people with dementia who received hospice reported higher perceptions of the quality of care and quality of dying.
Technically, the MicroScan and Vitek 2 systems were the least demanding method to detect ESBL as it is an integral part of the routine susceptibility test card. E-test strips were reliable but the most expensive of all techniques used. The DDD test and disc approximation, while relatively inexpensive, were technically subjective. The Vitek system may be very suitable in clinical laboratories, but would be better if accompanied with another test for detection of ESBL bacteria.
Head CTA is commonly used after blunt TBI but does not alter management and should be abandoned in the absence of clear indications.
The diagnostic sensitivities of EUS and ERC are similar for extrahepatic cholestasis. ERC is first indicated in poor candidates for surgery, since endoscopic therapy is frequently required. In good candidates for surgery, EUS should be carried out first in order to stage a tumor or identify choledocholithiasis.
The amount of apically extruded debris and the duration of retreatment were reduced by the use of a solvent specific to the sealer compared with a gutta-percha solvent or no solvent.
Managed care patients with DRG483 had higher rates of survival. Resource utilization efficiency was not affected by payer source.
CEA can be performed with no perioperative stroke risk or mortality, for asymptomatic disease in both diabetic and nondiabetic patients. The absence of fatal strokes associated with a significantly higher risk of cardiac-related death in the long-term points to the need to improve prevention strategies for postoperative cardiac risk in diabetic patients.
The authors' findings support the view that an interbody fusion confers superior mechanical strength to the spinal construct; when posterolateral fusion is the sole intervention, progressive loss of the extreme correction can be expected. Such mechanical insufficiency, however, did not influence clinical outcome.
In addition to duration of catheter use, we found three significant risk factors for sepsis and two of those three have been associated with the development of biofilm.
The success rate of EL-DCR was lower than that of the external DCR; however, no statistically significant difference was observed. Endoscopic transcanalicular diode laser DCR may be considered as an alternative method to external DCR with these results.
The possible prolongation of doctors' leisure time consequent on the use of unproductive trout flies has resource implications for the NHS. Urgent funding of a definitive, large multiriver trial is needed.
Patients with type 2 diabetes initiated with metformin monotherapy had longer survival than did matched, non-diabetic controls. Those treated with sulphonylurea had markedly reduced survival compared with both matched controls and those receiving metformin monotherapy. This supports the position of metformin as first-line therapy and implies that metformin may confer benefit in non-diabetes. Sulphonylurea remains a concern.
Although physically high functioning, movement deviations in teenagers and young adults with mild unilateral CP are correlated with lower self-esteem. This is more pronounced with increased arm movement deviation and should be considered when evaluating these individuals.
We conclude that, although there may be unique aspects of the purported codependency syndrome that are related to a family history of alcoholism, most of the relation between codependency and family history appears to be "explained" by general negative affectivity.
The risk of incarceration is doubled in premature neonates with inguinal hernia when repair is delayed beyond 40 weeks post-conceptual age. This increased incarceration risk should be one of the factors considered when deciding on the optimal timing of inguinal hernia repair.
EVAR causes significant acute renal injury in most patients. This was not attenuated by N-acetylcysteine. The causes of renal injury are probably multifactorial, the long-term clinical significance of which is unclear.
The introduction of routine 4DCT into the preoperative workup for surgical intervention in primary hyperparathyroidism does not appear to shorten operating room time or decrease failure rate significantly. However, preoperative 4DCT is associated with shorter hospital stays and improved rates of minimally invasive parathyroidectomy. This clinical benefit must be weighed against the increased cost associated with routine preoperative 4DCT.
Measurement of polyp size by linear probe agreed best with the actual polyp size, followed closely by visual estimation. The open biopsy forceps method was the least accurate.
Topical inpatient therapy for plaque psoriasis is well tolerated and a less expensive option than biologics in those who fail ambulatory treatment.
Parents' poorer quality of life is related to poor, medium-term asthma control in children. Assessing the parents' quality of life could aid disease management decisions. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2016;51:670-677. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Former athletes tend to adopt healthier lifestyles, which may give them an advantage regarding the risk factors that delineate the syndrome. Furthermore, physical activity engagement at recommended levels seems to play an important role in the association with MetSyn, even in subjects who have never been athletes.
Despite nonlordosis cervical sagittal alignment, double-door laminoplasty would be effective for patients with cervical myelopathy because of cervical spondylotic myelopathy or ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament. Furthermore, sagittal alignment is not the absolute and sole factor that surgeons should consider when determining the optimal treatment strategy.
Most primary care physicians mistakenly interpreted improved survival and increased detection with screening as evidence that screening saves lives. Few correctly recognized that only reduced mortality in a randomized trial constitutes evidence of the benefit of screening.
Pediatricians' radiation dose awareness is better than it was a few years ago, and the latest educational efforts in the form of campaigns, reports, publications, and news media seem to have had a beneficial effect. The younger generation had better knowledge, possibly because they were exposed to discussions of radiation dosage at an earlier stage in their training.
The assessment of mitral annulus motion has introduced new data in the study of diastolic function of FAP patients. An abnormal LV relaxation pattern occurred early in the evolution of the disease in patients with normal LVMI and systolic function.
Hyperhomocysteinemia is a common phenomenon in IBD and correlates with serum folate, cobalamin, creatinine, and pyridoxine concentrations. No correlation between tHcy and a history of venous or arterial thromboembolic complications is found. Hyperhomocysteinemia does not seem to be a major contributory factor in the development of venous or arterial thrombosis in IBD patients.
This meta-analysis suggests that the use of s-p53-antibodies has potential diagnostic value with relatively high sensitivity and specificity for OSCC particularly with serum specimens for discrimination of OSCCs from healthy controls. However, its discrimination power is not perfect because of low sensitivity.
Gyrus Plasmasect TURP yielded comparable results to monopolar TURP; however, this is only a preliminary study and follow-up is necessary to assess its long-term efficacy.
Analysis of a large series of cardiac surgical patients demonstrates significant reduction in deep sternal wound infection incidence in 15 years. Introduction of perioperative intravenous insulin may explain some observed risk reduction. Efforts should focus on prevention, because mortality remains elevated.
Students receiving the professional development training showed significant improvements in certain communication skills, but students in both cohorts improved over time. The lack of a relationship between observed communication skills and patient-centred attitudes may be a reflection of students' inexperience in working with patients, resulting in 'patient-centredness' being an abstract concept. Students in the early years of their medical course may benefit from further opportunities to practise basic communication skills on a one-to-one basis with patients.
Our results suggest therapy-induced degradation of cyclin D1 via autophagy.
Fatigued post-polio patients can be considered as a subgroup.
Pathologists attempt to comply with requests for materials but usually refuse to release the only diagnostic paraffin block so that materials are retained for possible future needs. Other problems identified in this survey include difficulties in getting blocks returned when needed and poor communication between researchers and laboratories. Lack of reimbursement and inadequate consent are not significant barriers to release of materials.
Homocysteinemia and the prevalence of hyperhomocysteinemia don't differ with or without the metabolic syndrome and doesn't correlate its main criterias.
The minimum clinically significant difference in VAS pain scores was found to be 9 mm. Differences of less than this amount, even if statistically significant, are unlikely to be of clinical significance. No significant difference in minimum significant VAS scores was found between gender, age, and cause-of-pain groups.
The common assumption that disclosing one's sexual orientation is uniformly healthy may be less accurate (or inaccurate) for lower status groups. Future research should explore SES as context for minority stress and LGB health disparities.
Based on the numbers of patients in our study, we could not demonstrate a survival advantage with radiation use. Rather, radiotherapy may be associated with orthopaedic complications occurring during and after treatment. Larger, prospective studies are necessary to definitively establish whether radiation is necessary for the treatment of patients with lymphoma of bone.
Moderate to severe ED, but not mild ED is associated with a considerably increased risk for CHD or stroke within 10 years. A thorough medical surveillance seems therefore advisable for men with ED including cardiological evaluation, treatment of risk factors and lifestyle modifications.
Six-month intermittent therapy with two drugs is as efficacious as 9-month intermittent-therapy in childhood pulmonary and extrapulmonary tuberculosis, other than meningitis.
Pyrexia, elevated ESR, cachexia and varicocele were related to advanced RCC. Hypertension and hypercalcemia occurring as single PNS, although also correlated with advanced stage, require further investigation.
This study indicates that chronic poor sleep quality is associated with increased signs of intrinsic ageing, diminished skin barrier function and lower satisfaction with appearance.
The biochemical and functional outcomes can be attributed to potential IPC effect. During bilateral TKA, a 20-minute interval between tourniquets can create IPC effect and attenuate the magnitude of ischemia-reperfusion injury, preserving better functional outcomes.
Family physicians should be trained in quality requirements for Web sites and in how to use online solutions for practice reorganization.
In clinical practice, faced with an elderly dyspneic patient unable to perform maximal expiratory manoeuvres, the evaluation of flow limitation by NEP technique seems nor to be reliable to predict an obstructive functional impairment nor to be able to explain the origin of his dyspnea.
HbA1c can play a diagnostic role in acute medicine as it diagnosed another 2% of admissions with diabetes but the discrepancy in sensitivity shows that it does not reflect transient/acute hyperglycaemia resulting from the acute medical event.
Botulinum toxin appears to have a role in the treatment of secondary strabismus, since only 3% (14) failed to obtain any reduction in their angle. It was well tolerated, with no permanent side effects. Only 22 (4%) patients developed ptosis.
Consistent with the theory of communication inequality, socioeconomic disparities in media use partially mediate disparities in multiple health behaviors.
Bronchodilation by salbutamol was slightly more effective via Volumatic than via pMDI or Turbuhaler. No significant difference in bronchodilation was found between salbutamol via Volumatic and Diskus. The advantage of Volumatic is not of clinical relevance.
Our results do not disqualify selective vaginal breech delivery at term and beyond as an option.
Although pure SCC cases are diagnosed at advanced stages of the disease, UC and pure SCC cases have similar prognosis by stages. Lymph node involvement and stages are the most important prognostic factors after radical cystectomy.
Long-term outcome of septoplasty appears to be in line with shorter follow-up. Surprisingly a sizable difference was noted between rate of satisfaction and improvement in nasal breathing. It is important that the surgeon and patient have the same expectations to septoplasty as to avoid any inappropriate disappointment, which is more likely to occur if symptoms are not severe.
The data suggest that college students drink more alcohol than indicated by their survey responses, raising questions about the validity of widely used alcohol surveys. Efforts to educate students about the alcohol content of standard drinks should be enhanced.
In patients with coronary artery disease and ischemia on dobutamine MIBI SPECT, the absence of transient wall motion abnormalities is associated with a similar extent and severity of reversible perfusion defects, a lower stress rate-pressure product and a higher prevalence of female gender than patients with transient wall motion abnormalities. Mechanically silent ischemia should not be regarded as a marker of less severe ischemia on myocardial perfusion scintigraphy.
In experienced hands, fetal echocardiography is accurate and allows medical staff and patients information in order manage a pregnancy appropriately.
Obliteration of the left atrial appendage is feasible and may be considered as an additional surgical procedure to reduce stroke. The group of patients in whom it offers the greatest potential are those with atrial fibrillation deemed ineligible for warfarin, those without atrial thrombus and with a free pericardial and pleural space.
The dynamic pupillometric findings in this study imply impaired autonomic dysfunction, mostly the increased parasympathetic action, in OAB patients and the modulatory effects of antimuscarinic treatment.
The diagnosis of cancer can motivate patients to reduce smoking, but few quit altogether and a smaller number increase or even take up smoking. These changes occur early after receiving a diagnosis of cancer. Patients with a smoking history believed that the treating radiation oncologist should discuss smoking cessation with their patients and that the ideal timing is at the first consultation. The periodic nature of treatments and consultations at radiation oncology centres suggest there is the potential for an effective smoking cessation programme.
At term corrected age, extremely premature neonates have the same renal volume as term infants. It is unclear whether renal volume is a good indicator of glomerular number.
There seems significantly longer DSS after TLND for nodal macrometastases in the neck compared to axillary and groin sites, although larger series should confirm this finding.
Continuous application of RF energy leads to an inverse relationship between volume of coagulation and power output. Modulation of the power output as a function of the tissue resistance enables application of a wider range of power outputs compared to continuous application of RF energy.
Bingeing/purging ED subtypes have a high ADHD symptoms level, also related with more severe eating, general and personality psychopathology.
Men should be screened at age 65 to obtain a high acceptance rate and to identify those with AAA most likely to benefit from treatment. The prevalence is relatively low at this age so an additional screen at age 70 is recommended, which would pick up a further 3.7% of patients with AAA, at which age intervention is likely to be of benefit.
Trust in future health care is a significant predictor of CAM use. Chronically ill people's use of CAM may increase in the near future. Health policy makers should, therefore, be alert to the quality of practising alternative practitioners, for example by insisting on professional certification. Equally, good quality may increase people's trust in public health care.
TCD is a simple, relatively inexpensive examination that can preprocedurally identify carotid stenosis patients at high risk for intraoperative cerebral ischemia in whom PTA might be preferable to surgery. During the procedure, TCD can document the benefits of endovascular treatment and offer early detection of ischemic complications.
Despite patient-reported improvements in pain, function, and physical activity after arthroplasty, objectively measured improvements in physical activity may not occur. Clinicians should incorporate strategies for improving physical activity into their management of patients after hip and knee arthroplasty to maximize health status. Future research is needed to explore the factors that impact physical activity levels in people after arthroplasty.
In a retrospective analysis comparing patients who received lidocaine with those who did not in sustained ventricular fibrillation and after conversion to a pulse-generating rhythm, such treatment was associated with a higher rate at ROSC and hospitalization but was not associated with an increased rate of discharge from hospital.
Our results show that testicular sperm extraction is a useful technique for obtaining spermatozoa before cytotoxic therapy in azoospermic cancer patients. This procedure should be considered as an option for fertility preservation in azoospermic cancer patients, because high cumulative cytostatic doses can cause irreversible fertility alterations.
Educational interventions were effective in improving pharmacy staff knowledge and practice regarding management of childhood diarrhea. Knowledge and actual practice of staff in real pharmacy settings did not always correlate; there is need for a stronger regulatory and law enforcement system. Interventions to improve pharmacy practice in developing countries should be focused, comprehensive, and evidence-based.
Despite a good correlation between Paw tw and Poes tw, Paw tw did not reliably predict Poes tw or Pdi tw in mechanically ventilated patients. Nevertheless, the excellent reproducibility of Paw tw suggests that it may be a useful means of monitoring inspiratory muscle contractility in the routine care of mechanically ventilated patients.
Observations of patients after organ transplantation indicate a recurring nature of adnexal changes, resulting in qualification for surgical treatment. The survey results suggest that solid-organ recipients with pathology in the uterine adnexa, with non-suspicious ultrasound image and not reporting clinical symptoms, could safely be subjected to clinical observation providing strict supervision.
The results of the study suggest that the subjects did get better visual acuity scores when encouragement was used and recommendations were made to change the clinic protocol.
The largest barrier to genetic testing was lack of physician referral; therefore, provider education must be improved. Appointments should be convenient and providers should proactively discuss the significant implications of testing results.
FT at FAST mode is not a valid test to detect differences in rhythm formation across the groups studied; fatigue is a confounding variable in some groups if the test is performed as fast as possible.
For all motor and sensory assessments, interrater and test-retest reliability was moderate to very high. Test-retest reliability was clearly higher than interrater reliability. To improve interrater reliability, it was recommended to strictly standardize the test procedure, refine the scoring criteria and provide intensive rater trainings.
Allergy and sensitivity to different kinds of allergens are important risk factors for adenotonsillar hypertrophy in children. Allergy control may have role in reducing the rate of adenotonsillectomy in children suffering allergic reactions with adenotonsillar hypertrophy.
In circumstances where a rod is not fully seated within the pedicle screw, the use of a rod persuasion device decreases the overall POS and work energy to failure of the screw or results in outright failure. Further rod contouring or correction of pedicle screw depth of insertion may be warranted to allow for appropriate alignment of the longitudinal rods.
CIMT efficacy did not result to be related to patient's age, mild cognitive deficit, time since stroke. Depression and pinch ability are the main predictors of motor recovery. Despite the demonstrated efficacy, CIMT feasibility still needs to be demonstrated, considering the low percentage (6.5%) of eligibility among all stroke inpatients.
PSF was associated with increased anxiety at all time intervals in adolescents in both groups. In the PEOSS group, PSF was associated with increased anxiety in the immediate postoperative period. Despite the increase in anxiety, patient satisfaction was higher in the intervention group. It is likely that patients need age-appropriate information and educational strategies to minimize anxiety during PSF. Further work is underway to study and develop more effective interventional strategies.
We found that valgus deviation does occur during tibial lengthening using the LON technique, but that blocking screw placement may help to minimize the likelihood that severe valgus deviation will occur. Future prospective studies should be conducted to confirm this preliminary finding.
This small series demonstrates a significant impairment in implantation in FET cycles using embryos generated from surgically retrieved sperm and a trend towards a poorer pregnancy outcome.
This study found that there is no statistically significant difference in the incidence of complications between uncoated and PC-coated fluoroplastic Armstrong beveled TTs.
Postoperative infection complications in laparoscopic gynecologic surgery without antimicrobial prophylaxis are negligible and overlapping to those obtained with cefazolin prophylaxis.
Though this research was based on a limited material, it confirmed that sliding fatal crashes are significantly decreased by ABS. Considering that ABS will soon be mandatory in the European Union on all new motorcycles with engine displacement over 125cc, these findings should be taken into account in the future design and testing of motorcycle-friendly road barriers and integrated protection systems.
Although nonresponse bias is a theoretical concern, it does not appear to have a significant effect on the facility-level results of this retrospective family survey.
Some bipolar patients experience depressive relapse following neuroleptic discontinuation. With reinstitution of the neuroleptic, they show rapid improvement in mood.
Contrast stasis is a benign angiographic finding that can disappear within 6 months on follow-up MRA. In addition, contrast stasis was not found to be associated with a low obliteration rate or packing attenuation or to be a risk factor for recanalization. The present study shows that aneurysms with contrast stasis on initial postembolization angiograms are no more likely to recanalize than aneurysms without contrast stasis.
Adolescent mothers who initiate a LARC method within 8 weeks of delivery are less likely to have a repeat pregnancy within 2 years than those who choose other methods or no method. First time adolescent mothers should be counseled about this advantage of using LARC.
The administration of ketamine before surgery may be an effective adjunct to intravenous morphine analgesia in acute post-thoracotomy pain management. In ketamine group, satisfaction of pain relief was significantly higher with a significant reduction of inflammatory response and morphine consumption compared with placebo group. Our results, if confirmed by larger studies, may be of clinical relevance in situations where epidural analgesia or other analgesic procedures different from systemic opioid analgesia are unavailable or contraindicated.
Revision of the cutoffs for CSIs established in index studies may be required to optimise performance in pragmatic diagnostic test accuracy studies which more closely resemble clinical practice.
The squamous variant of GBC presented at an advanced T stage; however, nodal involvement and distant metastasis were less common. Despite the higher T stage, curative resection could be achieved in the majority with a comparable survival.
Refractive error has no influence on pupil diameter, irrespective of refractive correction or accommodative demand. This suggests that the pupil is controlled by the pupillary light reflex and is not driven by retinal blur.
In patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension, the HbA1c level at time of diagnosis is an independent predictor of long-term prognosis.
It is possible that the mother's GMP status and the large family size associated with this are causal factors in the development of other psychoses than schizophrenia, alcoholism and depression among adult offspring.
Measuring HRV in the acute ED setting is feasible. If patients with cardiac and neurocardiogenic syncope have different HRV characteristics then it could be useful to determine a patient's underlying cause of syncope in the ED, which would allow earlier decision-making.
Screening and intervention programmes are likely to have life saving effects and lead to considerable economic savings.
We found that hospital size, surgical volume, and low mortality were associated with high overall patient satisfaction. However, with the exception of low mortality, favorable surgical outcomes were not consistently associated with high HCAHPS scores. With existing satisfaction surveys, we conclude that factors outside of surgical outcomes appear to influence patients' perceptions of their care.
High 25(OH)D levels might be associated with greater functional improvement and with less cognitive impairment in stroke patients.
A four-strand gracilis construct meets the anatomical specifications for use as an ACL reconstruction graft. By using the gracilis only, the morbidity associated with harvesting the gracilis and semitendinosus tendons should be reduced. Further studies must be performed to compare the biomechanical properties of this graft with other graft types and also to evaluate how this four-strand gracilis graft behaves in a clinical setting.
A high proportion of cases complied with national guidance. However, a disappointingly high number did not have vault cytology sampling when this was indicated. This is probably a result of the complex guidance that is misunderstood in both primary and secondary care. Vault follow-up of patients after hysterectomy rests with the team performing the surgery. Vault cytology, if indicated, should be performed in secondary care and follow-up should be planned. The protocol set out in this article should be followed to avoid unnecessary clinical governance failings.
IFs are frequent in trauma. Appropriate management and follow-up is a major commitment that can be well managed by a trauma nurse practitioner.
When compared with DCIS, borderline lesions do not demonstrate lower rates of IBE or invasive IBE. Despite "borderline" histology, a 5 year IBE rate of 7.7 % and an invasive IBE rate of 6.5 % suggest that the risk of future carcinoma is significant and similar to that of DCIS.
Posttreatment nodal status and perineural or vascular invasion at resection, but not graded histologic response, independently predict DSS after neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgical resection of gastric cancer.
It is feasible to electronically administer a generic questionnaire to a large population of doctors. Generic content is appropriate for most but not all specialties. The differences in mean scores and the reliability of the MSF between specialties may be in part due to the specialty differences in assessor mix. Therefore the number and assessor mix should be standardised at specialty level and scores should not be compared across specialties.
Annual screening for ovarian cancer has the potential to be cost effective, particularly in high-risk populations. Clinically acceptable positive predictive values are achieved if specificity exceeds 99%. Mortality reduction above 50% may not be achievable without screening intervals less than 12 months.
Conservation with absorbable mesh wrapping should be attempted more often, but experience is necessary to do it properly. Given a protocol with explicit criteria for operation, we suggest that haemodynamically stable patients who require little or no blood transfusion should be observed carefully in the first instance.
The positive psychological wellbeing effects identified in this study should be considered in cost-benefit assessments of interventions seeking to promote active travel.
Our results show that BRAF, KRAS and PIK3CA mutations occur prior to malignant transformation demonstrating that these oncogenic alterations are primary genetic events in colorectal carcinogenesis. Further, we show that BRAF mutations occur in association with CIMP phenotype in colorectal serrated polyps and verified that colorectal serrated polyps and MSI CRC show a similar frequency of BRAF mutations. These results support that BRAF mutations harbour a mild oncogenic effect in comparison to KRAS and suggest that BRAF mutant colorectal cells need to accumulate extra epigenetic alterations in order to acquire full transformation and evolve to MSI CRC.
The benefits seen when losartan was compared to atenolol in the LIFE trial may be due to a reduction in BNP. We failed to detect a differential effect in central compared to peripheral haemodynamics when losartan was compared to atenolol.
In VBAC attempts, a dose-response relationship of maximum oxytocin and uterine rupture exists. These results provide evidence for vigilance when higher doses of oxytocin are given to patients who attempt VBAC.
Pretransplant diabetes seemed to significantly increase post-transplant fractures among adults receiving solid organ transplantation. Pretransplant fracture prophylaxis should be considered in these patients.
Our results suggest that a selective approach may be exercised in the use of transesophageal echocardiography prior to D.C. cardioversion for atrial fibrillation. Patients with an entirely "normal" transthoracic echocardiogram may proceed directly to cardioversion without a precardioversion transesophageal echocardiogram.
Although there is no statistically significant difference between both groups regarding the cure rate in both fresh cases or recurrent ones, there is an advantage of not trimming the fistula since trimmed fistula tends to get larger, should recurrence occur after trimming.
YKL-40 could be considered a biomarker of cGVHD severity and activity. However, validation in a larger group of patients is warranted, as well as longitudinal testing of YKL-40 levels in patients at risk of developing cGVHD.
The use of NPPV reduces the risk of VAP and NI, compared to ETI, irrespective of the severity of the patient's illness.
Training GPs in the diagnosis and treatment of shoulder disorders does not make any difference to the outcome, in terms of pain and disability, 1 yr later. Further, there is no advantage to injecting steroid in a group with predominant rotator cuff disorder. Trial registration. International Standard Randomized Controlled Trial Number 58537244. Trial steering committee comprised Prof. Paul Dieppe, Prof. Elaine Hay, Dr Brian Hazleman and Dr Kerenza Hood.
We found no association between shigellosis morbidity and socioeconomic status. This finding is probably real and not the result of reporting bias. Analysis of morbidity using small geographical units such as census tracts is more accurate than analysis using large geographical areas such as cities.
The visceral slide technique was easily learned, was rapid to perform, and reliably identified adhesion-free areas of the abdominal wall.
PMN functional impairment in AD patients could represent an additional cause of skin infections, coupled with other known defects in the innate immune system. The increased MFI of adhesion molecules and TLRs is rather a consequence of the increased skin barrier permeability to bacterial molecules capable of stimulating immunological reactions.
Sterilisation of used NiTi wires by either dry heat and steam autoclave does not affect the concentrations of nickel ions released into artificial saliva.
On the basis of the authors' initial observations, an early-onset altered pattern of CBF was identified. These findings suggest local hypoperfusion as the cause of the TNEs. This hypoperfusion may originate from competing blood flows resulting from impaired cerebral autoregulation and a fluctuating flow in cerebral microcirculation.
The community-based lifestyle intervention in the IHHP was successful in improving DDS which might be related to an increase of diet quality of the population that in turn might decrease the risks of chronic diseases.
Although acid reflux is increased in patients with Barrett's esophagus and esophageal motility is impaired, other factors apart from acid exposure and motility contribute to the development of Barrett's esophagus.
In a case-control study of patients with mirror location intracranial aneurysms, size ratio was identified as the unique morphological factor associate with the rupture of cerebral aneurysms.
When compared with age-similar people with healthy vision, glaucomatous patients with advanced bilateral 24-2 VF loss, significant 10-2 VF loss, or poor CS are more likely to experience problems with face recognition.
Because UNWCB are associated with both medical and psychological health risks, routine screening is warranted. Special attention needs to be directed towards youth at greatest risk for disordered eating, including overweight youth.
The LNG-IUS not only altered endometrial thickness, but--in women with prolonged bleedings--also significantly changed uterine artery blood flow. Further studies are needed to confirm these results and enable gynecologists to properly counsel women, improving initial continuation rates.
T1a and T1b tumors have similar prognosis both in terms of DSS and RFS. It seems that a distinction between tumors of<1 and>1 cm is of no prognostic benefit.
The findings show equivalent postoperative outcomes after TEP and open repair of groin hernia in female patients. Because the wound scar after open repair is well concealed beneath the pubic hair and no superior clinical benefits are observed after TEP, open repair appears to be the technique of choice for the management of primary groin hernia in females. The TEP approach should be reserved for female patients with recurrent or multiple groin hernia.
The 80-mL criterion for menorrhagia is of limited clinical usefulness because it is prognostic neither for problems nor iron status and apparently does not guide management.
The present study confirms an independent benefit of high-dose (>76 Gy) radiation therapy and long-term AAD in high-risk prostate cancerpatients.
Sedation can impede the detection of minimal change esophagitis and hiatal hernia, but does not influence detection of reflux esophagitis of definite severity and Barrett's esophagus.
the advice given to patients about their cigarette smoking habits by hospital doctors is strongly influenced not only by the patient's health, but also by the patient's chronological age.
The rigorous preservation of cortical veins, draining veins, and eloquent areas should be implemented during the resection of large tumors that obstruct the SSS. Suitable individualized approaches associated with full exposure and low cerebral perfusion pressure levels after surgery are critical for favorable results, and the reconstruction of the SSS may not be necessary.
Patients with fecal incontinence from neurologic origins could be good candidates for sacral nerve stimulation.
Adoption of the clinical pathway presented here is feasible in any institution. One-day admission for patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy has been shown to be safe, highly cost-effective, and results in more efficient use of scarce resources, such as the ICU.
Laparoscopy used in open exploration is beneficial for 75% of carefully selected patients with chronic abdominal wall pain.
Early apoptosis of monocytes upon presentation of clinical signs of sepsis is connected to a favourable outcome. These findings are of particular importance for the patient with septic shock, where they might constitute a mechanism of pathogenesis.
In this healthy pediatric cohort, GJH was present in one-third of the sample, and no significant association was found between GJH and total motor performance. The effect of GJH on the rate of development of motor performance appears to decline with increasing BMI growth. Longitudinal prospective studies are recommended to detect influences of GJH on motor performance over time, as well as the influence of body composition and Beighton cutoff points.
In this preliminary study, Triclosan-coated Vicryl sutures did not reduce the infection rate of cervical wounds after head or neck cancer surgery. The effectiveness of this suture material in head and neck cancer surgery should be considered with caution.
In most RRA-negative patients, postoperative serum Tg values spontaneously drop to undetectable levels within 5-7 yr after thyroidectomy. Thus, in later phases, Tg assays may be a valuable tool for follow-up even in patients who do not undergo RRA.
The residents of sheltered accommodation were more disabled than the general elderly population but, in contrast to those in residential care, did not have a great excess of mental health problems. Indeed, the possibility was raised that sheltered accommodation may protect against depression in people who live alone.
This case-control study seems to confirm that prolonged survival can be achieved in highly selected patients operated on for limited PC and fewer than 3 LM.
Psychiatric illness is a relatively common disorder in patients with RA, with a frequency higher than that of other general medical conditions. Anxiety is a more common disorder than depression. The first step in correct management is recognition of anxiety and depression so that appropriate treatment can be tried. Particular attention has to be paid to social stress and lack of social support.
While significant differences were identified between AA and Caucasian women, no associations were found between any LAMC1 gene variant and advanced POP.
The substantial differences in the use of analgesics around-the-clock may be questioned on quality of care grounds.
Our data demonstrated that, in large CABG cohorts, surgical risk models can accurately predict cost of CABG. However, despite a trend for increasing cost with increasing STS risk, surgical risk models based on preoperative data are poor predictors of cost in individual patients. Use of these models should be limited to analysis of cost trends in cardiac operation, but not for predicting financial risk in individual patients during clinical decision making.
Regardless of BMI, gender or age, all patients with OAB can be considered candidates for solifenacin treatment.
Intestinal permeability is increased in experimental NEC in association with increased cardiac damage. Rat mortality may be due to cardiac failure secondary to an inflammatory response caused by increased intestinal permeability.
In contrast to traditional assumptions about the associations between SES and health, women in low-income rural populations who are at the upper end of the income spectrum within their community were found to be more likely to have higher SBP, as were those who perceived that they had higher status in the community. These results challenge standard assumptions about the association of SES and health.
Among patients with an ischaemic stroke while taking aspirin, clopidogrel initiation was associated with fewer recurrent vascular events than aspirin reinitiation.
Hyperoncotic CPB-prime using HES 10% improves CI and prevents EVLW accumulation in the early post-pump period, while pulmonary function is unchanged. This effect can be of benefit especially in patients with congestive heart failure.
UA levels are associated with future risk of HF in patients with stable CAD, but this association is attenuated after adjusting for traditional CAD risk factors.
Practicing complete consultations results in the dilemma of prioritizing medical problem solving above attention for patient communication. Integrated consultation training advances this dilemma to the pre-clerkship period. During clerkships this dilemma is heightened because real patients trigger empathy and responsibility, which invites students to define their role as doctor.
Other factors may explain the poorer pretreatment cognitive function in women with breast cancer, including persistent effects of surgical operation and anesthesia, sleep problems, and tumor-related factors. Additional studies are needed to explicate the basis of poorer pretherapy cognitive function in this population.
Subpleural curvilinear densities, subpleural density in dependent locations, parenchymal bands, and thickened septal lines occur as isolated and as combined CT findings in patients with a variety of underlying diseases or conditions unrelated to asbestosis and by themselves are nonspecific findings. Their occurrence, even in patients with CT evidence of pleural plaques, does not necessarily indicate the presence of asbestosis.
These analyses establish that suicidality is distinguishable from depression, although the factors are substantially correlated. Results suggest that the underlying factorial relationship between suicidality and depression appears not to vary considerably between genders or across cohorts aged 20-24, 40-44 and 60-64 years. Finally, the analyses also highlight the necessity of inventories with scales identifying symptoms of suicidality independent of depression symptoms.
Because of potential dosimetric effects of the Magna-Site, it is preferable to treat PMRT patients with permanent implants. However, it is not unreasonable to treat with a TE because the volume of tissue affected by attenuation from the Magna-Site is small. In this scenario, we recommend using 15 MV photons with compensating bolus.
MR mammography as an adjunct to mammography and sonography reveals breast cancer with a higher confidence and sensitivity than do mammography and sonography only. The combined method can be recommended if the greatest possible sensitivity or negative predictive value is wanted. However, the combined method is not useful for screening or workup of suspicious lesions because of its lower specificity and accuracy.
We found a positive impact of urgent TSH determination in emergency decision-making. Nevertheless, a stronger clinical impact could be achieved by improving request appropriateness and by targeting TSH testing to some clinical indications identified by the study. The work was considered a quality-improvement project by the Hospital Committee for Quality Management.
In addition to the effect of symptomatic hypoglycemia on HRQOL, fear of hypoglycemia was independently associated with lower overall health status and mental and physical health.
Patients with high-risk lesions associated with the lowest likelihood of malignancy (papilloma and radial scar) and without suspicious MRI findings can safely undergo follow-up instead of surgery. Because of the low negative predictive value, however, MRI is not helpful in cases of lobular neoplasia and atypical ductal hyperplasia, and all these lesions should be excised.
Pending confirmation in experimental and epidemiological studies, our findings suggest that diameter of the retinal arterioles might be associated with the AT2R 1675G/A polymorphism.
the intensified follow up did not increase either the proportion of patients detected with asymptomatic relapse or the number of patients with specific oncological treatment of relapse.
Dengue virus infection may result in acute pure motor quadriplegia due to myositis. In an endemic area it should be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute flaccid paralysis.
In infants with ALTE, prolonged SREs are associated with ineffective esophageal motility characterized by frequent primary peristalsis and significant propagation failure, thus suggestive of dysfunctional regulation of swallow-respiratory junction interactions. Hence, treatment should not target gastroesophageal reflux, but rather the proximal aerodigestive tract.
Preconsultation education is a valuable but rarely used opportunity to promote breast cancer screening. If well constructed, educational materials using a variety of media can be effective. While preferences for media may in part depend on the audience's age, considerably more research is needed to better understand how the interplay of media, message, and audience characteristics can help accomplish health-promotion objectives.
Significant regional variation exists in the social deprivation of patients undergoing cardiac surgery in England. Social deprivation is associated with an increased risk of in-hospital mortality and reduced midterm survival. These findings have implications for health service provision, risk prediction models and analyses of surgical outcomes.
Vulvar cutaneous candidosis and dermatophytosis cannot be reliably distinguished by routine histopathology or specific polymerase chain reaction. A high index of suspicion combined with adequate microbiological testing remains the best approach to differentiating between the 2, which impacts on counseling, treatment, and prognosis.
PRU ≤198 may be associated with a lower incidence of ischemic neurological sequela and death post-CAS. Prospective studies are needed to validate the relationship between antiplatelet assays and outcomes post-CAS.
Many primary care physicians report encouraging patients to join or avoid capitated plans according to the patient's health status. Although these physicians' recommendations might be associated primarily with concerns about quality, they can have the effect of insulating certain health plans from covering sicker and more expensive patients.
The results confirm earlier studies in suggesting that the use of computer aided decision support improves diagnostic and decision making performance when dealing with patients suffering from acute abdominal pain. That use of the computer for teaching gave results at least as good as with its use for direct feedback may be highly relevant for those who are apprehensive about the real time use of diagnostic computers in a clinical setting.
Additional immunotherapy is not necessary for patients who have obtained successful results after the initial immunotherapy and are positive for MLR-BAbs after their first delivery.
This study found that preschool attendance was associated with reduced risk of hypertension in adulthood, but no effect was seen for the other cardiometabolic factors. These findings may reflect differing causal pathways and trajectories of these risk factors from childhood to adulthood, but confirmation from other studies is required.
Self-efficacy may play a partial mediating role in the effect on some longer-term functional outcomes in the Home-based Post-Hip Fracture Rehabilitation intervention. The results suggest that program components that target self-efficacy should be incorporated in future hip fracture rehabilitation interventions. Age and sex of the targeted participants may also need to be considered when developing interventions.
Focal acetylcholine delivery into the AVN increased AVN refractoriness and significantly decreased ventricular rate response during induced AF in a dose-related, reversible manner without systemic side effects. This may represent a novel therapy for AF whereby ventricular rate is controlled with the use of an implantable drug delivery system.
Placement of definitive plate fixation overlapping previous external fixator pin sites significantly increases the risk of deep infection in the 2-staged treatment of bicondylar tibial plateau and pilon fractures. Surgeons must make a conscious effort to place external fixator pins outside of future definitive fixation sites to reduce the overall incidence of deep wound infections. Additionally, consideration must be given to the relative benefit of a spanning external fixator in light of the potential for infection associated with their use.
Our findings indicate that the interdisciplinary teams in specialist healthcare may discriminate against women with chronic pain when physiotherapy and radiological investigation are recommended. The team's choice of recommendations might be influenced by gendered attitudes, but this field of research needs to be studied further.
Beta blockers, a proven life-saving therapy in the setting of chronic systolic HF, were found to be less frequently prescribed before discharge in the presence of de novo AHF with accompanying COPD.
Our results suggest that stratification according to Ki67 levels might improve predictive significance of the response in hormone-responsive breast cancer. Even in these subtypes assumed to be less chemosensitive, some patients with highly proliferative tumors derive a significant benefit from chemotherapy, and consequently it is important to identify them.
A substantial proportion of patients who fail NICE response criteria at 3 months and continue on treatment to 6 months achieve a response. These results support a 6 month therapeutic trial over 3 months.
Long-term ketogenic diet treatment stimulates liver parenchymal injury, hepatic steatosis and gallstone formation. Patients should be monitored by screening liver enzymes and abdominal ultrasonography in order to detect these side effects.
In this small group, the combined use of diet and VNS appeared synergistic and yielded rapid benefits. It may be more effective with longer VNS off-times. Further prospective studies of this combination in refractory pediatric epilepsy are needed to help guide optimal use.
The diagnosis of urinary tract infections is unlikely in the absence of dysuria, but to treat all dysuria patients as UTI entails a high rate of overtreatment.
Many outpatients in MRI centres may be scanned before the peak effect of anxiolytics prescribed. A standard sedation protocol in such centres is associated with a more appropriate drug choice, as well as optimized monitoring and postprocedure care.
The findings of this investigation have implications for dissemination of evidence-based practices and policy change. Contextual adaptations in evidence-based practice design and training may result in wider adoption of innovative and efficacious treatment practices.
The authors recommend that legislatures specifically designate researchers as mandated reporters to ensure more uniform reporting practices in research settings. For both investigators and Human Subject Protection Committees, inclusion of researchers among the categories of those mandated to report would also help address issues of immunity from civil and criminal liability for "good faith" reports that turn out to be false and injurious.
Our findings provide further arguments suggesting that dietary imbalance or smoking could be involved in the development of hemorrhoids. These factors should be evaluated in appropriate dietary inquiries. Epidemiological surveys would be required to confirm their possible causal effect.
Our study suggests that patients with OPTX can be managed conservatively with close monitoring, but only in areas with ready access to emergency facilities should any adverse events occur.
The vast majority of patients were treated concordant with evidence-based guidelines suggesting that, within the limits of the selected criteria, prostate cancer patients are unlikely to be disadvantaged by receiving radiotherapy in this 'generalist' centre.
Applying an acetaminophen concentration cutpoint of 100 μg/mL (662 μmol/L) at 2-4 hours after an acute ingestion as a threshold for repeat testing and/or treatment would occasionally miss potentially toxic exposures. Absorption of acetaminophen is only slightly delayed by coingested opioids or antimuscarinics. Our analysis validates the practice of not retesting when the first post-ingestion acetaminophen concentration is below the lower limit of quantification.
The hospice child bereavement service was offered as an integral part of palliative cancer care support. Future research could explore collaborative work between counsellors and other professionals.
Treatment planning based on a single 4D-CT study is reliable for the majority of patients. Increased intrafractional uncertainties were seen for patients with poor pulmonary function and with tumors located in the lower lobe.
In our experience, concurrent LD-FRT and chemotherapy was well tolerated. Because the response rate seems promising, prospective Phase II studies of the strategy are now under way.
1. The therapy of diabetes type 1 in the puberty with multiple daily doses as well as with the intensive method is not a risk factor for obesity. 2. Normal weight evidenced a proper diabetic metabolic control and a good education about the rational diet and optimal insulin dose. 3. In patients in whom BMI is over normal range it is urgently necessary to verify of the therapeutical management. 4. In patients with diabetes type 1 a strict control of body mass index and the growth velocity during each visit in the out patients is necessary.
The postulated presence of magnetic nanoparticles located in hematopoietic stem cells could constitute a cancer risk factor. Superparamagnetic nanoparticles can possibly mediate increased level of leukaemia caused by background exposure to low-frequency weak EMF.
Age of the children at the time of elective cardiac surgery or catheter intervention did not influence the course of psychological distress of their parents, nor the styles of coping used by the parents. Future research should investigate in what way the age at which these cardiac procedures are performed influences the emotional and cognitive development of the children.
Results do not support previous studies that atypical depression is usually of moderate severity. A rating scale like the GAF, which assesses both symptom severity and impairment of functioning, may give a more complete assessment of depression severity than a symptoms rating scale (used in previous studies), which does not cover atypical features and does not assess functioning.
Abnormal thyroid function with hormonal substitution did not increase survival in our population, independent of initial prognosis and previous treatments. Larger comparative studies are deserved to validate these conclusions.
A media campaign aimed at changing patient behavior can contribute to reducing the rate of inappropriate antibiotic use.
Early surgery seems to be a good choice for patients with EUF as their response to surgery appears not to differ from B2 patients and had a better prognosis than phenotype B3 patients.
This study identifies that docetaxel as second-line chemotherapy has low activity and was associated with significant toxicity.
Our data suggest association of a variant (GG) genotype of OGG1 with increased UBC susceptibility and a high risk of tumor recurrence in NMIBT patients on cystoscopic surveillance. XRCC7 G allele carriers (TG+GG) are also at an elevated risk for susceptibility to UBC as evidenced by a high odds ratio throughout the analysis.
In this study, PPI and high-dose H2-blocker have EF-reducing tendency. However, these changes were small and these drugs seemed to exhibit little influence clinically.
Flow propagation velocity is preload independent in patients with LVEF<50%, but it is preload-dependent in patients with LVEF>50%.
Our findings imply that the ET alone is adequate to ventilate at least the reduced middle ear space following TL surgery in most subjects, and perhaps in 100 % if the ET hadn't been plugged during surgery. Hence, the mastoid air cell system, even when healthy, is not needed to maintain air in the middle year cleft.
A higher number of screens in a child's bedroom was associated with higher adiposity, more total screen time and lower sleep efficiency. Having a TV in the bedroom appears to be the type of screen presence associated with higher levels of adiposity. Given the popularity of screens among children, these findings are increasingly relevant to health promotion strategies.
While kit distribution made safer use items more accessible, its impact on safer use practice was limited. Our findings highlight the need for targeted distribution of safer use items. Future research should explore the dynamics of unsafe crack smoking practices and ways to leverage safer use messaging.
In chronic HF, marked abnormalities of Ca(2+) handling proteins are present in skeletal muscle, which mirror those in failing heart tissue. This suggests a common mechanism, such as chronic augmentation of sympathetic activity and autophosphorylation of Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent-protein kinase II.
Severe ROP continues to be a significant morbidity among infants<750 g.
These data suggest that planned caesarean section does not confer any advantage over planned vaginal delivery, in terms of maternal outcome, but is associated with an adverse fetal outcome.
In the USA, men born between 1976 and 1985, and women born between 1981 and 1985 have higher alcohol consumption than in earlier or later years.
The risk of increasing seizure is not increased with acupuncture treatment for cerebral palsy.
Experience of care associated with FMGs and NCs is not superior to that associated with group practices.
Preoperative spirometry was not reliably predictive of PPCs, either as combined or individual parameters, in patients aged ≥ 60 years who underwent LAG. These results do not support routine use of spirometry to stratify risk of PPCs in this surgical population.
These findings highlight the importance of family structure and level of parental control in the development of problematic patterns of drinking in adolescence.
Differences in early complication rates may be due to a learning effect. However, OPCAB allows us to implant more grafts and is more comfortable for both patient and surgeon. These advantages may well counterbalance the cosmetic benefits of MIDCAB procedures.
BSE is still relevant as a screening tool of breast cancer since those who detect breast lump by BSE will most probably go for further check up. CBE should be done to all women, especially those at highest risk of breast cancer, to encourage and train for BSE.
No support for the superiority of VAS over Likert was found. However, VAS may produce instability in response patterns. When using self-ratings of voice and speech to identify a need of further rehabilitation, Likert scales seem better suited.
One in 3 veterans has comorbid conditions that would increase the risks or decrease the benefits of intensive glycemic control. We propose that a public reporting measure for A1C of less than 7% be subjected to exclusion criteria rather than be applied to all persons with diabetes mellitus.
This potential risk should not be dismissed on the basis of an uncertain pharmacokinetic argument. Rather, risk assessors need to decipher the BPA dose response and apply it to humans with comprehensive pharmacokinetic models that account for metabolite deconjugation.
To our knowledge, this is the largest series to date of supracondylar humeral fractures with anterior interosseous nerve injuries. There is no evidence that a supracondylar humeral fracture with an isolated anterior interosseous nerve injury requires urgent treatment. A delay in treatment up to twenty-four hours was not associated with an increased time of nerve recovery or other complications. This series excluded patients with sensory nerve injuries, pulselessness, and ipsilateral forearm fractures, which all may require urgent surgery. Barring other clinical indications for urgent treatment of a supracondylar humeral fracture, an isolated anterior interosseous nerve injury (no sensory changes) may not by itself be an indication for urgent surgery. The anterior interosseous nerve injuries in this series showed complete recovery at a mean time of forty-nine days.
Increased GCP II expression and low mGluR3 expression in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex suggest that NAAG-mediated signaling is impaired in this brain region in schizophrenia. Further, these data implicate the mGluR3 receptor in the antipsychotic action of mGluR2/mGluR3 agonists.
The distal urethral polypropylene sling provides similar symptom improvement in all patients regardless of preoperative VLPP. VLPP is helpful in the diagnosis of SUI but appears to be of minimal benefit in predicting the outcome of the distal urethral polypropylene sling procedure.
AF males with a CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc score of 0 were at true low risk for stroke, which was similar to that of non-AF patients. However, AF females with a score of 1 were still at higher risk for ischemic events than non-AF patients.
The rate of HIV/AIDS was significantly lower in women with pre-eclampsia than in normotensive healthy pregnant women.
Despite a lower pretest probability of acute coronary syndrome in women, we did not observe any significant gender disparity in how patients were managed and evaluated. When the patients' and providers' gender matched, the provider involved them less in the decision making process, and the information provided was less helpful than when the genders did not match.
Analyses of panel data on Norwegian youths reveals a statistically significant association between cannabis use and violence.
A DNB significantly increased the number of "very accurate" SpHb values and decreased the number of "inaccurate" values. We conclude that a DNB may facilitate the use of SpHb as a guide to transfusion decisions, particularly when the PI is >2.0.
Overall, results did not provide strong evidence of an association between exposure to PM in the previous 12 months and incident DM; however, an association with distance to road (a proxy marker of exposure to traffic-related pollution) was shown among women.
Strong gender disparities in hypertension were identified. Separate strategies in addressing hypertension in men and women are needed, with an improvement in men's follow-up care and health promotion, focussed on nutrition, targeted at women.
In this initial study, using local health care providers to collect data did not bias data collection. The bias observed in the knowledge indicators is most likely due to the 'practice effect', whereby respondents increased their knowledge as a result of completing the first survey, as no corresponding effect was seen in the practices indicators.
Preparing chronically ill youths for transfer to adult care appears to be beneficial for them. However, transfer is only a small part of the much broader transition that is preparation for adult life. A well-planned transition should allow these young people to reach their full potential.
Patient post-operative satisfaction is gaining increasing relevance in assessing the outcomes from autologous breast reconstruction. Overweight and obese women benefit from autologous breast reconstruction, despite being at increased risk of post-operative complications, and eventually achieve comparable levels of post-operative satisfaction. This should be reflected in pre-operative counselling.
Our findings represent a prognostic validation of the applied diagnostic criteria for three of the four identifiable clinical entities and highlight the importance of symptoms over serum IgM concentration and marrow infiltration.
The use of TD opioid preparations, with their prolonged analgesic effect, may reduce total healthcare activity and significantly reduce GP contact. This may particularly benefit a rural population where there is a relative shortage of doctors.
High-Dk silicone hydrogel lenses can be worn for up to 3 years with virtual elimination of the hypoxic consequences observed with low-Dk lenses made from conventional lens materials.
Gastroduodenal artery and PDA aneurysms present most commonly with pain or bleeding, and all should be considered for repair, regardless of size. Aneurysm exclusion is safely and effectively achieved with endovascular coiling. Although associated celiac artery stenosis is found in the majority of cases, celiac revascularization might not be necessary.
Postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with good responses after preoperative chemoradiation and curative surgery did not significantly improve the survival. However, this should be validated in prospective randomized trials with larger sample sizes.
The WHO-NEC category may be composed of heterogeneous disease entities, namely WDNEC and PDNEC. These subgroups tended to exhibit differing profiles of Ki67 LI, Rb immunopositivity and KRAS mutation, and distinct response to chemotherapy. Further studies for the reevaluation of the current WHO 2010 classification are warranted.
It suggested that TCM pattern might affect acupoint specific effect on the immediate pain relief obtained for participants with PD.
In the present series, the new TNM (1997) did not improve the prognostic stratification of lymph-node involvement. An adequate and universal system for lymph-node stratification is necessary and further validation of these classifications is needed.
A 100% and 90.3% fusion rate was obtained for one-level nonplated and plated ACDF procedures with autograft, respectively. The effects of smoking or level of fusion could not be discerned from these one-level cases. Excellent and good clinical outcome results were obtained for 91.3%. Nonplating or rigid plate fixation for ACDF in properly selected patients to treat radiculopathy with or without myelopathy has a high fusion rate and yields a satisfactory clinical outcome. Although controversy exists as to the efficacy of rigid plate fixation in one-level ACDF, solid bone fusion can be adequately obtained without plate fixation and instrumentation-related complications can be avoided. In line with the literature, plate fixation should be reserved for patients unwilling or unable to wear a hard orthosis postoperatively for an extended period of time or for those patients who seek a quicker return to normal activities. Proper patient selection, meticulous operative technique and postoperative care is essential to promote optimal graft-host incorporation.
Available imaging techniques showed moderate to very low sensitivity. US proved superior to MRI and CT, but should only be applied in high-risk patients. In particular, CT can be considered unsuitable for diagnosing pelvic lymph node metastases in PC.
Loci that are strongly differentiated between allopatric populations sometimes contribute to reproductive isolation in admixed populations. However, geographic variation in selection and local adaptation, in aspects of genetic architecture (such as organization of genes, recombination rate variation, number and effect size of variants contributing to adaptation, etc.), and in stochastic evolutionary processes such as drift can cause strong differentiation of loci that do not always contribute to reproductive isolation. The results have implications for the theory of 'genomic islands of speciation'.
A thick fetal corpus callosum is usually associated with other brain anomalies and is part of a neurogenetic syndrome in most cases.
Pouchitis is a combined clinical, endoscopic and histological diagnosis. The correct interpretation and application of the St Mark's histological scoring criteria for pouch biopsies is an important part of this diagnostic process.
HD during CAS is a common, relatively benign event, without increased risk of peri-operative complications. Careful pharmacological treatment is necessary to decrease HD and the potential complications, especially in patients with more severe calcified lesions. These results require confirmation in a separate, larger cohort.
According to the rate of retinal injuries that would require urgent care in similar groups, in closed-globe trauma ocular fundus evaluation in the Emergency Room could be substituted by the evaluation of the fundus reflex; findings of any of these injuries in open-globe trauma does not modify the initial approach.
The main preventative strategy against CMV in paediatric renal transplantation in our country is chemical prophylaxis (81%), with an incidence of infection and disease of 24% and 6.7%, respectively. There were no serious direct or indirect effects in the first year post-transplant. The incidence is mainly linked with serological D/R and positive donor status.
Acupuncture contributed to the academic success of the children who underwent acupuncture treatment for their primary symptoms.
This study found that rosuvastatin is effective at improving potentially atherogenic lipid parameters in HIV-positive patients. The lipid changes we observed were of a smaller magnitude compared to non-HIV subjects. Our results are further supported by a small, pilot trial examining rosuvastatin effectiveness in HIV who reported similar median changes from baseline of -21.7% (TC), -22.4% (LDL-C), -30.1% (TG) with the exception of a 28.5% median increase in HDL. In light of the results revealed by this pilot study, clinicians may want to consider a possible resistance to statin therapy when treating patients with HIV metabolic syndrome.
It is sometimes difficult to accurately define the resection line in gastric cancer surgery, especially in the early stages of disease, but because of the strongly negative prognostic value of an infiltrated margin, frozen sections are recommended if neoplastic invasion is suspected and a new resection is always recommended if possible. Nevertheless, the good prognosis of resected EGC patients with resection line involvement must be considered before submitting patients with associated diseases to radical surgical retreatment.
The primary prevention of prostate cancer with finasteride looks promising. However, at the present time it should only be considered with caution until we have answered critical questions surrounding the difference in cancer grade observed in the PCPT and the clinical significance of cancers detected on protocol directed end of study biopsies.
Although most patients with CIS of the glottis are traditionally treated with vocal cord S, RT is effective in terms of freedom from recurrence; it is an attractive option and should be considered in patients with lesions recurring after stripping as well as in those whose follow-up presents a problem.
Patient-caregiver dyads following a more complex treatment plan (i.e. taking many medications) or having more difficulty following a treatment plan (i.e. having difficulty with health care tasks) had less agreement. Future qualitative research is needed to elucidate the underlying reasons patients and caregivers rate the quality of care differently.
The estimated economic burden of anastomotic leakage following AR is approximately double that of the remunerated tariff.
Our findings suggest that patients diagnosed with PCOS should be advised audiologic evaluation especially in the high frequency.
Some patients with IPF/UIP remain stable for extended periods of time without treatment.
Older individuals, women, and residents of communities with prominent Hispanic culture have the greatest reduction in fatal fall risk associated with Hispanic ethnicity.
The polymorphisms of NAT1 and NAT2 are not susceptible to PLC in Luoyang. Allele NAT1*10 interacts with occupational exposures.
These results strongly suggest that heart failure with preserved and reduced ejection fraction could be distinct pathophysiological entities, at least in elderly patients.
: The results suggest that VGB retinotoxicity might be associated with elevated retinal ornithine mediated by low basal OAT activity.
ICSI was associated with higher incidence of multiple pregnancy and cesarean section, with no difference in the incidence of congenital anomalies compared to spontaneous conception.
The prolonged latencies suggest a defect in the afferent pathway from the rectum in children with chronic constipation and encopresis.
LNM is an appropriate method for reliable quality assurance of laparoscopic nerve-sparing.
In this observational study, the absence of response, probably due to the low-dose scheme used, was the major cause of AZA withdrawal in our series of RA patients. TPMT genotyping may allow the use of high doses of AZA in patients with normal TPMT alleles to improve the efficacy of this immunosuppressive drug. Our data support the relationship between gastrointestinal intolerance and thiopurine metabolic imbalance.
The distribution of maternal height in the population should be considered when the cut-off height for the 'at risk' designation is chosen. The implications of attaching an 'at risk' label is discussed and a call is made for regional specific and agreed risk criteria.
Whilst we know that patients with medical conditions are often depressed and that such co-morbid depression is often undertreated, we have found that it is undertreated even in patients repeatedly referred to medical specialists. Better assessment and management of depression in such patients could both improve patients' quality of life and reduce the cost of care.
Duplex ultrasonography alone can accurately determine the degree of internal carotid artery stenosis and when paired with careful clinical evaluation is a reliable and cost-effective method for evaluating surgical carotid disease.
Most PCPs stated that they would refer all elderly patients with cancer to oncologists and that referral decisions were based mainly on patients' wishes. Continued efforts are needed to overcome barriers in the referral process and to understand the perspectives of elderly patients to enhance their cancer care.
If it is not possible to perform completion thyroidectomy within the first week of the initial operation, completion thyroidectomy 90 days after the initial operation is beneficial to reduce the incidence of complications and makes more thyroid tissue excision possible.
Liver resection can be performed safely for patients with large or multifocal ICC. The long-term outcome for these patients can be stratified on the basis of a prognostic score that includes tumor number, nodal metastasis, and poor differentiation.
A rapid rule out strategy such as the ROMEO pathway is feasible in the UK healthcare setting and provides standardised and consistent evaluation.
A routine CT scan was not helpful in management of operable T2 tumors but might change therapy in selected patients with T3-4 tumors who are considered for cystectomy.
Re-resection for metachronous primary HCC for patients with preserved liver function can achieve favourable survival outcome.
In this patient population, given the low incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications, targeted respiratory physiotherapy may not be required in addition to standard care involving a clinical pathway following pulmonary resection via open thoracotomy. These results should be extrapolated with caution to those patients undergoing pulmonary resection with poor preoperative lung function.
Immunohistochemistry on TMAs for c-erbB-2 expression in breast cancer is a reliable alternative to that performed on routine standard sections, as it is both cost effective and time efficient, especially in a research setting.
The prevalence of abnormalities of the proximal oviductal segment identified by HSG is too low to warrant the routine use of HSG as a diagnostic tool.
A fellowship in MIS at an academic institution does not detract from resident experience in gynecologic surgery, with most residents viewing the fellowship positively.
Agreeing with or heeding a decision aid, but not defying it, may reduce liability after an error. However, using an aid may reduce favorability after a positive outcome.
Although awaiting results from prospective trials, improved risk assessment for patients with stage II and III is likely to be achieved in the foreseeable future.
Social disadvantage indexes exposure to factors operating prior to onset that increase the risk of psychosis, both during childhood and adulthood.
LVHR in the elderly with incisional hernias have longer LOS and have a higher need for post-discharge nursing care unlike their counterparts with primary hernias. Identifying this cohort of patients early on helps the health-care providers to optimize the outcomes.
There is no scapular elevation but rather rotation during glenohumeral joint abduction. Normal values given in the present study can be used in clinical examinations.
The windkessel hypothesis is unlikely to explain the occurrence of delayed ipsilateral intraparenchymal haemorrhage after flow diversion; however, other mechanisms involving altered haemodynamics distal to the treated aneurysm may play a role. Further studies involving the assessment of haemodynamic changes after flow diversion would be useful to understand, and eventually mitigate, this currently unpredictable risk.
The effect period, if any, of exposure to physical exertion, stress, and time pressure on the onset of acute low-back pain is considered to be less than 24 hours.
Our study suggests that if vitamin C does have anti-atherosclerotic effects in diabetes, it does not exert them through the traditional pathways identifiable by established surrogate markers of cardiovascular risk.
The results suggest that muscle strengthening of the lower limbs did not improve performance in the 6-minute walk test in this population of postmenopausal women.
This study shows that celecoxib is not a substrate of Pgp and does not substantially affect the Pgp-mediated efflux of [(11)C]verapamil. Therefore, celecoxib-induced augmentation of the efficacy of chemotherapeutic and neurotropic drugs must be due to another mechanism than modulation of Pgp-mediated drug efflux.
Our data show that ultrasound has limits in identifying the exact number of uterine myomas. This mapping is particularly needed in a minority of patients with usually desiring fertility who need a debulking procedure due to the large size and/or number of myomas or myoma location causing symptomatology. In patients with more than six myomas, voluminous uterus, a second-level examination such as Magnetic Resonance may be helpful.
Findings indicate that caffeine may have a dose-dependent relationship with alcohol intoxication in the bar/nightclub setting. In addition, results revealed that cola-caffeinated alcoholic drinks may pose similar levels of risk to bar patrons as those associated with AmED beverage consumption. Product labeling requirements about alcohol risks may need to be extended not only to energy drinks, but to caffeinated soft drinks as well.
In this porcine model, regional extracorporeal blood cooling proved effective in preventing in-circuit clotting without the need to use any other anticoagulant.
Newborns exposed in utero to SSRIs, have a twofold higher risk of mild nonsyndromic heart defects than unexposed infants. The data suggest that women who require SSRI treatment during pregnancy can be reassured that the fetal risk is low and possible cardiac malformations will probably be mild. Late-targeted ultrasound and fetal echocardiography at 22 to 23 weeks' gestation are recommended in this patient group.
This study further separates two groups of Metsovites with different reaction to asbestos, possibly as a result of different activation of alveolar macrophages. This difference leads the first group to the formation of PCs, BAL fluid lymphocytosis, and relative "protection" against malignancy, and the second group to no calcifications, no lymphocytosis, but also no protection against malignancy.
no statistically significant correlations between the intensity of gastroesophageal reflux and the weight and height in children and youth were found.
An avoidant coping style may have a short-term effect on young adults' smoking acquisition. Future research using a precise and well-validated measure of avoidant coping is now needed to test this possibility.
This study identified a set of genes whose expression is altered by DEHP exposure in mammalian embryo cells. This is the first study that elucidates the genomic changes of DEHP involved in the organization of the cytoskeleton. The latter genes may be candidates as biomarkers predictive of early events in the multistep carcinogenic process.
In this low-risk population, abnormal systolic blood pressure recovery after exercise was not independently predictive of mortality after correcting for differences in baseline and exercise characteristics.
This study suggests that the rate of salt and water replacement in diabetic ketoacidosis are not key determinants of the appearance of cerebral oedema. No factors predictive of survival from cerebral oedema have been identified, though this is a rare entity and case numbers were small. Nevertheless, current protocols at Royal Children's Hospital and most other centres utilize slow rates of rehydration with isotonic saline fluids. Further review in 5-10 years may determine whether this protocol is effective in reducing rates of cerebral oedema complicating diabetic ketoacidosis.
Low back pain is a challenging chief complaint to the primary care diagnostician due to its wide differential. In a careful and thorough work-up of this complaint, disorders of the anus and rectum should not be overlooked as possible culprits.
Alexithymia was not directly related to marital satisfaction. However, alexithymia appears to have a significant effect on relationship-related anxiety and avoidance. This association should be further studied in parents and their offspring in a longitudinal setting.
Poor sleep is common in new parents and we provide preliminary evidence that sleep disruption in this population is associated with near miss motor vehicle accidents. Drowsy driving results in thousands of unnecessary serious injuries and fatalities each year; raising public awareness that new parents are a high-risk group is important.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first prospective study that investigated whether job satisfaction predicts time to RTW after cardiac interventions. The results suggested that when patients are satisfied with their job and positively perceived their work environment, they will be more likely to early RTW, independently of socio-demographic, medical and psychological factors.
Lung biopsy does not always provide a specific diagnosis and does not always change therapy. The site, size, number, and laterality of the biopsy specimen have no definite influence on diagnosis. There is a trend to improve diagnostic yield by carrying out two or more biopsies on the right lung.
Ambient light has no statistically significant effect on pulse oximetry readings. Even had the differences been statistically significant, the magnitude of the differences was small and thus clinically unimportant.
Patients who underwent ulnar nerve transposition at the time of ORIF of distal humerus fractures had almost four times the incidence of ulnar neuritis than those without transposition. We do not recommend routine transposition of the ulnar nerve at the time of ORIF of distal humerus fractures.
In our medical center, rivaroxaban concentrations could be assessed by a rapid chromogenic method. Its pre-specified LOQ proved too high after being checked "on site" against HPLC-MSMS. Prescriptions for rivaroxaban were not optimal. An overestimated LOQ may impair observance monitoring or predispose patients to either risky thrombolysis or otherwise adjournable surgery in clinical practice.
The majority of obstetrician-gynecologists are satisfied with their MFM support. The dissatisfaction expressed by 31% of generalists might be ameliorated if individual MFM specialists increased their availability and/or broadened their scope of practice.
In people with celiac disease, adherence to a strict gluten-free diet worsens the already nutritionally unbalanced diet of adolescents, increasing elevated protein and lipid consumption. In the follow-up of patients with celiac disease, considerable effort has yet to be made to improve compliance with a gluten-free diet, and especially to control the nutritional balance of the diet in compliant patients.
In juvenile patients with type 1 diabetes the percentage of T lymphocytes expressing L-selectin was increased independently on the du-ration of the disease. In children with type 1 diabetes and diagnosed vascular complications the highest percentage of T lymphocytes expressing L-selectin was found.
The association between increased production of ET-1 and reduction in SMA time averaged velocity suggests a possible mechanism for hypoperfusion of the intestinal wall in neonates.
The study provided some evidence, although not statistically significant, that short-term associations between air pollution and asthma may depend on background air pollution levels. However, we cannot rule out that the association is due to other spatially dependent factors in Scania. The study should be reproduced in other study areas.
AIS as CA were unable to control efficiently their postural orientation on the basis of the proprioceptive cues, the only sensory information available in the EC situation, whereas in the same condition healthy young adults present no difficulty to achieve the postural control. This suggests that AIS as CA transitory neglect proprioceptive information to control their posture. These results and previous studies suggest the existence of different afferent pathways for proprioceptive information subserving different parts in sensory integration of postural control. We conclude that the static proprioceptive system is not affected by the idiopathic scoliosis, while the dynamic proprioceptive system would be mainly affected.
Because we found that the supply of types of health care required for the provision of guideline-recommended cancer care for patients with breast cancer and CRC did not vary with markers of area socioeconomic disadvantage, it is possible that previously reported unfavorable breast cancer and CRC outcomes among individuals living in impoverished areas may have occurred despite an apparent adequate area health care supply.
PersistAF appears to increase the potential of HPCs for (cardio)myogenesis. Restitution of CD34+HPC levels, mediated by SDF-1alpha and possibly ANP, occurs within several weeks after successful cardioversion.
Although most medical students receive formal instruction in basic procedures, fewer receive formal instruction in advanced procedures. The use of simulation to complement this training occurs less often. Simulation training should be increased in undergraduate medical education and integrated into graduate medical education.
Diabetes quality indicators may be underdetected more frequently for elderly and black patients and the physicians, clinics, and plans who care for such patients when quality measurement is based on administrative data alone. This suggests that providers who care for such patients may be disproportionately affected by public release of such data or by its use in determining the magnitude of financial incentives.
The diagnostic performance of the SNAPPE-II offers mild results in the moment of the diagnosis of NEC, and at T(1). The MDAS is non significant at T(0) and obtains moderate results at T(1). These results do not encourage using the SNAPPE-II and the MDAS as definite tools to decide for surgical treatment of the patients affected by NEC.
Such an earlier start of follicle growth in a possibly less favourable hormonal environment, as well as a limited oocyte pool, may contribute to a decreased follicle and oocyte quality, resulting in diminished fertility in ageing women.
Extended hepatic resection for HCC can be performed in selected cirrhotic patients with acceptable morbidity, mortality, and long-term survival that are comparable to those of lesser hepatic resection. Extended hepatectomy for large HCC extending from one lobe to the other or central HCC critically related to the hepatic veins is justifiable in cirrhotic patients with preserved liver function and adequate liver remnant.
The effect of levator avulsion on pelvic floor and sexual function an average of 5.2 months after childbirth seems to be limited to a perception of increased vaginal and pelvic floor muscle laxity, and reduced pelvic floor muscle efficiency. The impact of levator hiatal over-distension on postpartum pelvic floor and sexual function appears to be negligible.
Smoke-free air laws and state tobacco control programs are effective strategies for curbing young adult smoking.
Posttraumatic stress disorder subsequent to mobbing can occur frequently. PTSD therefore should be specifically considered in routine care.
Countering risk-minimizing beliefs may facilitate increased quitting, but this may not be so important for self-exempting beliefs.
Policy changes can have a significant impact on patient care. Prioritizing patients and expediting transfer will decrease overall mortality, reduce hospital stay and reduce the cost of hip fracture care.
In hereditary hemochromatosis, the presence of large cell change or high proliferative activity in patients older than 55 yr with cirrhosis should be considered a strong predictor of hepatocellular carcinoma development, especially if hepatitis B virus infection coexists.
Revision procedures can be avoided by screening programs. These should be strived for so that the neuro-orthopedic treatment on operation planning is not first initiated when pain occurs and revision procedures, such as angulation osteotomy or proximal femoral resection can be avoided. The reconstruction should also involve minimal deformation of the femoral head. In order to implement this, the interdisciplinary cooperation between neuropediatricians, social pediatriatricians and neuro-orthopedists should be intensified in the future.
Carriers of FVL or PGM are not at significantly increased risk of these pregnancy complications.
For IDU PSA, the overall AE rate was 6.5%, and propofol appeared to have a significantly lower rate.
It seems that different case finding methods yield different results concerning the association of psychiatric disorders with LOS. When interpreting these results the small size of some subsamples must be taken into consideration.
Survey results show shortages of radiologists and certified mammography technologists.
Late onset central hypoventilation syndrome may be associated with cerebral venous thrombosis. Ischemia of central chemoreceptors or integration of their informations could be one of mechanism.
This study describes strong reactions, both positive and negative, to the phenomenon of patients covertly recording clinical encounters. The availability of smartphones capable of digital recording, and shifting attitudes to patient-clinician relationships, seems to have led to this behavior, mostly viewed as a threat by clinicians but as a welcome and helpful innovation by some patients, possibly indicating a perception of subordination and a lack of empowerment. Further examination of this tension and its implications is needed.
The observed correlations were heterogeneous, but important diseases such as OSA and EMDS in children showed fair and weak correlations. This suggests an unsatisfactory knowledge level among the population about these disorders, despite their high prevalence and impact on patient's overall health.
Living kidney donation is not so safe and has some late complications. Precise predonation evaluation and long-term follow-up of kidney donors for detection and prevention of complications is necessary.
Our study offers novel findings about public and parental views of litigation as a potential approach to address weight-based (and other forms of) bullying, and introduces considerations about the potential role of litigation as part of broader remedies to address youth bullying.
The majority of children in hip spica casts are not safely restrained when traveling in motor vehicles. Pediatric hospitals must develop better strategies to improve adherence to prescribed safe transportation protocols for patients in hip spica casts. Improved parental education, expansion of insurance coverage for restraints, hospital-based loaner programs and financial assistance to families are potential solutions to explore.
Using this large national surgical database, LRYGB patients discharged on POD 1 did not have a significantly higher rate of adverse events compared to patients discharged on POD 2. Understanding the important predictors of adverse events following LRYGB will help bariatric surgeons implement next-day discharge protocols based on the appropriate perioperative evaluation.
Overall, the presence of AF does not increase the probability of PE when this diagnosis is suspected. Nevertheless, when PE suspicion is based on new-onset dyspnea, AF significantly decreases the probability of PE, as AF may mimic its clinical presentation. However, in patients with chest pain alone, AF tends to increase PE probability.
The authors argue that neither the hot hand belief nor hot hand behavior is stable, but rather, both are sensitive to decision frames. The results can inform coaches on the importance of how to provide information to athletes.
The results reveal that the BK-61A peptide could be used for diagnosing the presence of anti-ureB antibodies that may be involved in the initiation of atherosclerosis.
These results suggest that medical care during heat wave has been directed towards more fragile patients, helping to limit deaths in this group. Less frail patients made the largest contribution to excess mortality during the heat wave. During extreme weather conditions, specific attention should be paid not only to frail persons, but to all the elderly community.
LMSB narrowing is well-defined by MR imaging. While a prespinal position of the DA occurs in some children as a normal variant, it is more common and more marked in children with LMSB narrowing. Vascular compression of the LMSB between an anteriorly positioned DA and the pulmonary artery appears to be important in children with symptomatic LMSB narrowing.
Our data indicate that ZPP cannot be used to predict the erythropoietic response to iron supplementation. However, ZPP levels may be an indicator of functional iron deficiency due to blockade of the reticuloendothelial iron release in haemodialysis patients.
Absence seizures can occur in approximately 20% of MEI patients and the occurrence of ASs, though not essential to formulate the diagnosis, do not automatically exclude the diagnosis of MEI.
The greater the number of physicians prescribing medications for an elderly patient, the greater is the risk that the patient will receive a PIDC. A single primary care physician and a single dispensing pharmacy may be "protective" factors in preventing PIDCs.
Effective initiatives at the level of the health care system are needed. The potential of Internet-based health information to lead to better physician-patient communication and patient outcomes could be facilitated by promoting physician acknowledgment of increasing use of the Internet among patients and by developing patient management guidelines and incentives for physicians.
Elevated MRV velocity in the early postoperative period is a transient phenomenon not correlating with outcome or requiring intervention. In the late period, elevated MRV velocity is associated with entities including hydronephrosis, perinephric collections, and arteriovenous fistulae.
Danish hospitals focus very little on relatives of cardiac patients, and this seems to be due to several factors, including lack of resources, lack of interest and knowledge among staff, and practical and psychological barriers among patients and relatives. More research is needed on health services concerning relatives of cardiac patients, regarding both the prevalence of activities and barriers to these.
1. Anatomical landmarks in hypospadias are similar to those found in healthy individuals. 2. Marking reference points prior to incision helps to reduce the rate of meatal stenosis and fistula.
Improvement in maternal mental and physical health outcomes at the population level in the early years after childbirth remains a largely unmet challenge. Despite the lack of effectiveness of PRISM intervention strategies, important lessons about systems change, sustained investment and contextual understanding of the workability of intervention strategies can be drawn from the experience of PRISM. Trial Registration. Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN03464021.
Improvements in intratumoral adenoviral spread in response to hyperthermia were not consistently observed in a mouse tumor model using two quantitative endpoints of gene expression.
The potassium stimulation test is not correlated with either bladder capacity or cystoscopic findings.
Candida albicans is more sensitive to different essential oils compared to the main used drugs. Moreover, the essential oil affected mainly the cell wall and the membranes of the yeast.
While previous reports indicate that the VF-14 can be significantly shortened, our analysis only justifies removing three items. While the resulting VF-11 has properties similar to the VF-14, the limited time savings do not justify altering this already validated instrument.
Although Tanner did not anticipate the myriad influences of pollutants, the growth as a mirror concept continues to have great validity and utility.
The correct order of application in this DMD population should be BM correction first, followed by BSA indexing, and not vice versa. In general, the order of applying the BM correction and BSA normalization becomes more important with increasing slow GFR and extreme low BSA. The order of application is of less importance for people with normal BSA and/or normal GFR.
If these findings can be reproduced in larger homogeneous cohorts, a genetic stratification based on the AKR1C3 rs12529 SNP, can minimize ADT-related HRQoL effects in PC patients. Our data additionally show that with this stratification it could also be possible to identify men needing ADT for better oncological advantage.
The age-related increase in glucose intolerance may not be fully explained by the defect in HOMA-IR and HOMA-B. As HOMA-IR and HOMA-B are only surrogate measures of insulin sensitivity and insulin secretion, the results need to be further investigated.
Characteristics of the school environment, the family and the individual adolescent are all associated with the level of educational aspiration, but in a different way for different educational tracks. Interventions aimed at reducing socioeconomic inequalities in health via the educational system should, therefore, take this variation and the rather pivotal role of the father into account.
These findings suggest that non-attenders at routine child health surveillance activities are not at an increased risk of medically attended accidental injury. They also suggest that health visitors can identify those children most at risk of accidental injury using criteria for classifying priorities in caseloads.
Smoking and drinking in the home was not greater in smoke-free Ireland than in the United Kingdom, where there was not a smoke-free law at the time of the survey. These findings add further support to the enactment of comprehensive smoke-free laws, as called for in the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control.
The outcome of coronary artery bypass grafting was excellent and independent from the SYNTAX score. Incomplete revascularization rather than degree of coronary complexity adversely affects late outcomes of coronary bypass.
GPIIb-IIIa-mediated platelet aggregation and von Willebrand factor interactions with GPIb and/or GPIIb-IIIa seem to be the major determinants of PFA-100 CT. On the contrary, other platelet receptors participating in platelet aggregation and/or platelet adhesion are of secondary importance and minor significance in blood flow at higher shear stress monitored in PFA-100.
The hemodynamic profile of patients receiving mechanical ventilation was unable to predict tolerance of an intermittent hemodialysis session. In patients without mechanical ventilation, hypovolemia before the session appeared to be predictive of poor tolerance.
Extended resection for localized primary colonic carcinoma invading pancreas or duodenum can be undertaken safely and is associated with prolonged survival time.
Our prospective study demonstrated that for this convicted DWI offender cohort, classic formulations of deterrence and social-control theories did not account for DWI. However, results suggest that punishment may decrease the likelihood of DWI recidivism.
Vegetations and multilocularity are two independent MRI features that can help to distinguish between SBOT and MBOT.
Trainees are more likely to choose second-generation antipsychotic medication for patients and themselves. Despite being aware of evidence that suggests otherwise, they predominantly base these choices on perceived efficacy.
Bladder wall thickness shows a significantly positive correlation to pdet/Q(max) and to urodynamic diagnoses of stress incontinence, DO and obstruction.
In this population, we did not observe any detrimental impact of an unsuccessful trial of MET (beyond the additional time and imaging costs). If more confident and effective symptom control could be achieved, expansion of utilization and duration of MET may be a path to improved patient outcomes and cost control.
Increased acetabular anteversion in affected hips is a universal finding in unilateral DDH. The deficiency of the anterior wall in the acetabulum is not a unique reason for increased acetabular anteversion in unilateral DDH, because it is also correlated with excessive lateral rotation of the ischium.
The present results suggest that the success of CBZ as initial treatment, but not NVC volume on MR cisternography, may be a significant predictor of the success of TNB as additional therapy in patients with TN.
Patients with prostate cancer in both urban and rural settings were less likely to receive radiation therapy rather than surgery the farther away they lived from a treatment center. These findings raise the possibility that the geographic availability of radiation treatment centers may be an important determinant of whether patients are able to choose radiation rather than surgery for localized prostate cancer.
Stoss therapy safely and effectively achieved and maintained a level of 25-OHD>50 nmol/L during 6 months in these children with IBD. Further prospective studies are now required to confirm this finding and establish whether this intervention has other benefits.
In an attempt to properly counsel the parents, we reviewed the literature and identified four additional patients with VACTERL and first trimester exposure to maternal diabetes mellitus. Although this evidence does not strongly support a causal relationship between these two conditions, additional arguments may substantiate this hypothesis. The pathogenesis of diabetic embryopathy in relation to the VACTERL phenotype is also discussed.
The NRMP data from 1984 to 2011 supported our hypothesis that intercandidate competition intensity for orthopedic PGY1 positions has not increased over time. The misconception that orthopedics is becoming more competitive likely arises from the increased number of applications submitted per candidate and the resulting relative importance placed on objective criteria such as United States Medical Licensing Examination Step 1 scores when programs select interview cohorts.
Women with PCOS have elevated levels of sex steroid precursors, estrogens, androgens, and glucuronidated androgen metabolites as measured with a specific and sensitive mass spectrometry-based technique. The combination of elevated estrone (>50 pg/ml) and free testosterone (>3.3 pg/ml) appeared to discriminate with high sensitivity and specificity between women with and without PCOS.
This study provides a detailed description of the frequency of sustentacular fractures, the displacement of such fractures, and articular subluxation or dislocation associated with intra-articular calcaneal fractures. Fixation by means of a lateral approach may be compromised when the sustentaculum tali is fractured or subluxated. A medial approach or combined medial and lateral approaches may be considered in such circumstances. Special attention should be paid to the integrity and alignment of the sustentacular fragment prior to surgical fixation.
These results lend strength to our category II trauma alert activation criteria and suggest that non-critically injured patients in need of trauma care are receiving appropriate treatment, regardless of who performs the initial evaluation. Comparable successful outcomes support the contention that the mandatory initial presence of an attending trauma surgeon is not necessary for category II activations. Initial evaluation may be performed by an emergency physician alone or by a non-attending surgeon (senior surgical resident or fellow) in conjunction with an emergency physician. Management of category II trauma alert activations should be determined by individual institutions after a thorough evaluation of resources and outcomes.
Brackets with higher activation forces were accompanied by higher hysteresis values, which resulted in clinically similar deactivation forces, regardless of the type of self-ligating brackets used.
This large observational analysis of use of nitric oxide during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation calls into question the benefits of inhaled nitric oxide among patients receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for pulmonary or cardiac failure. Given our inability to determine type of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and control for severity of illness, these findings should be interpreted as exploratory.
Blood phenylalanine concentrations were consistently lower in the afternoon. Taking blood samples at variable time points in the day may lead to variation in interpreting dietary control. A detailed study is necessary to examine the 24-h diurnal variation of plasma phenylalanine and tyrosine in HT1. It is possible that phenylalanine concentrations may be very low for a substantive time over 24 h and the potential impact that this may have on cognitive development and growth in children is unknown.
These results support the recommendations for routine blood tests at annual review in preschool CF children. The results may help to rationalise which tests are performed and thus reduce laboratory costs.
Our data suggest that diagnostically significant findings in the pelvis are rare; consequently, the habitual inclusion of the pelvis on abdominal CT for primary malignant tumours in the abdomen is not justified.
GPs in two Cornish practices recorded the occupation of working-age patients infrequently, but over two-thirds of GPs in Cornwall believe it is important to do so. If these results reflect the practice of UK GPs, the new 'e-fit note' may be of limited value in monitoring and analysing sickness absence.
Neuropathic lesions are clearly distinguishable from an artificial increase of intraneural T2 by the MA. Even at a maximum MA (55°), the false-positive determination of a neuropathic lesion is unlikely.
Further research on inequalities in service use will benefit from additional explanatory analyses and from the inclusion of sociopsychological variables, like cost-benefit considerations in decisions to use services.
Post-CRT PET/CT is not a useful tool for evaluating anatomic tumor changes and, therefore, not accurate in predicting tumor clearance of the MRF. However, it might be a useful tool in predicting pathologic tumor response after CRT.
We concluded that the HLHP strategy cost corresponded to 5.6 % of the annual healthcare expenditures attributable to these risk factors. This study compared the economic value of HLHP activities against healthcare expenditures associated with targeted risk factors.
The study of T-cell subsets warrants further evaluation as a potential tool to better identify CVID patients with distinct clinical profiles.
Laparoscopic pyeloplasty in children under 2 years of age is a good alternative technique for ureteropelvic junction obstruction, although operating time are still long.
Previous findings have shown that childcare can have a positive influence on childhood injury; however, a recent Unicef report highlighted that a lack of access to high-quality childcare could lead to a widening of inequalities. Our analyses indicate that childcare does have the potential to widen inequalities in injury; further research is required to understand why childcare has a differential impact on unintentional injury and how this might be prevented.
the poor patient rating of MMDs which are widely used in practice is of concern. Some MMDs may be difficult to open and access, especially for patients with cognitive impairment. This offers some guidance to health professionals in advising patients on MMD choice however, overall MMD rating appears dominated by transportability.
The results obtained reveal a significant decrease in endothelial function of ex-ELBW subjects compared to controls, underlining a probable correlation with preterm birth and low birth weight. Taken together, these results suggest that an ELBW may underlie the onset of early circulatory dysfunction predictive of increased cardiovascular risk.
Tooth brushing frequency and consumption of sugary drinks in early childhood were related to caries development during pre-school age, independent of family characteristics and oral health behavior at 5 years of age. The results indicate that early established habits regarding tooth brushing and consumption of sugary drinks have long-term effects on caries development. Parents encountering difficulties in establishing favorable oral health behavior in children's first years of life should receive special attention from health personnel.
It is time for the conventional wisdom that depression is increasing to be reconsidered, and for a more realistic perspective, developed from evidence-based analyses, to be accepted.
Failure mode and effect analysis is a useful tool to aid multidisciplinary groups in understanding a process of care and identifying errors that may occur. However, the results of this study call into question the reliability of the FMEA process that was tested. The 2 groups identified similar steps in the process of care but different potential failures with very different risk priority numbers. Such discrepancies make it impossible to identify reliably those failures that should be prioritized and thus where money, time, and effort should be allocated to avoid these failures. Health care organizations should not solely depend on FMEA findings to improve patient safety.
AUC increments were marginal when adding non-glycaemic biomarkers and non-blood biomarkers to the classic model based on FPG and HbA1c. For the prediction of diabetes, FPG and HbA1c are sufficient and the other markers may not be needed in clinical practice.
The cortical desynchronization was modulated by the intent to modulate the force level rather than the actual modulation of the force production.
This study showed that development of CCC has no preventive effect on left ventricular functions in patients with coronary artery disease. Interestingly as the stage of CCC increases left ventricular function worsens. It may be the result of the fact that patients with well developed CCC have more severe coronary artery disease.
Interns about to commence clinical practice in NSW teaching hospitals demonstrated significant deficits in prescribing of regular medications, initiation of new therapies, prescribing of discharge medications, and particularly prescribing of Schedule 8 medications. Most interns recognized these deficits and would have liked more clinical pharmacology training at medical school.
Patients are equally satisfied with physicians who dress in business attire, casual clothing, or scrub suit.
Illness perceptions differed between individuals with and without chronic low back pain. In the subacute phase, healthcare professionals could assess illness perceptions and, if necessary, incorporate them into the management of patients with low back pain.
Although TEG analysis with temperature adjusted to the in-vivo value during hypothermia yields results with small systematic bias, the importance of temperature adjustment in clinical routine is low because of the precision limits of TEG measurement itself. Therefore, we see no need to perform TEG analysis at the in-vivo temperature.
The SMS reminder system was feasible to initiate given high access to mobile phones and positive views. Features of service users should be considered when implementing SMS interventions.
There was good to excellent radiosurgical agreement in the assessment of the status of various middle ear structures. Improvement in radiosurgical agreement from existing studies in the literature was noted. This was especially true for features such as facial canal dehiscence. With technological advancements, CT temporal bone scans appear even more valuable for evaluation of patients prior to cholesteatoma surgery.
The 5-year risk of LRR in our pT1-2N0 cohort treated with mastectomy was generally low, with no significant differences observed between approximated subtypes. Among the subtypes, TNBC conferred the highest risk of DR and an elevated risk of LRR in the presence of positive or close margins. Our data suggest that although subtype alone cannot be used as the sole criterion to offer postmastectomy radiation therapy, it may reasonably be considered in conjunction with other clinicopathologic factors including tumor size, histology, and margin status. Larger cohorts and longer follow-up times are needed to define which women with node-negative disease have high postmastectomy LRR risks in contemporary practice.
This study found mild iodine deficiency in a group of New Zealand infants and toddlers. Children who consumed infant formula, which is fortified with iodine, had better iodine status than did children who were currently breast-fed because breast milk contained low levels of iodine.
BWD was associated with depression independent of BMI, sex and age.
In terms of late-phase administration, fulvestrant still appears to have a good clinical effect, with a time to progression of 4 months and a clinical benefit>60%, notably accompanied by only very mild toxicity. Irrespective of the line of treatment the patients received, the 4 month time to progression was constant and the medication was still working effectively in a very late line of treatment in metastatic breast cancer. Fulvestrant offers clinical benefit with very mild toxicity in a very heavily pretreated population and the medication is recommended, even in patients who received many lines of chemotherapy.
The morbidity and mortality rates for Jehovah's Witnesses undergoing neurosurgery were not higher than those of the control group. Thus, it can be concluded that Jehovah's Witnesses did not have a higher risk when microsurgical techniques and extensive anesthetic monitoring were applied during neurosurgery. Because the surgical success rate for Jehovah's Witnesses corresponded to that of the control group, the increase in costs because of longer treatment times is compensated in the long run by avoiding a lengthier illness, sometimes with more expensive conservative therapy.
A diagnosis of pulmonary sclerosing haemangioma can be made at intra-operative frozen sections in most cases based on the tumour circumscription and variegated histological patterns. When only a single histological pattern is identified or when there is significant cytological atypia, distinction from other tumours can be problematic, and the diagnosis is best deferred.
Alexithymia, and more specifically its difficulty in identifying feelings aspect, may be a learned behavior used to avoid unwanted emotions. This avoidant behavior may form the link between alexithymia and psychopathology. Implications for alexithymia theory and treatment are discussed.
Patients' expectations remained very high despite having had a failed previous surgery for the same procedure.
The diagnosis of EIN in EP may be a better predictor than AEH for endometrial involvement with malignant or pre-malignant neoplasms. The safety of conservative hysteroscopic resection of EP with AEH/EIN is questioned.
This proof of concept study finds preliminary support for the potential utility of SSRIs in managing Bipolar II Disorder, with clear improvements in depression and impairment and some suggested benefit for hypomania.
Disturbances revealed by an otoneurological investigation have so far not been considered in the diagnosis of chronic toxic encephalopathy. Our results indicate that an otoneurological test battery adds worthwhile information about lesions within the brainstem-cerebellar complex not revealed by a psychometric investigation.
Differences in disease prevalence can limit the usefulness of population-based hospitalization rates for studying variations in hospital admissions.
Even when injection pain is reduced, the use of a premedication regimen clearly has additional value with respect to the patients' experience. Considering the low VAS scores observed overall, it might be worthwhile to reserve additional injection pain-reducing interventions for individual patients rather than adding them as a component of standard practice.
The proposed screening tool was shown to be easy and useful for detecting NP and LNP in chronic pain patients as a fast first assessment tool in primary care, thus facilitating the choice of a topical treatment.
Contrary to our predictions, inflorescence size and population size were not inversely related. While attractive floral displays in sparse populations potentially compensate in terms of fruit set, population abundance nevertheless plays an important role in seed set. Because floral quality and quantity differ in their ability to explain reproductive outcomes, studies should examine reproduction at several stages, otherwise the impacts of population size may be overlooked. Allee effects manifesting at a critical stage of reproduction, such as seed production, may act as a bottleneck impeding successful recruitment.
Surveillance cultures and genotyping of MRSA and MSSA isolates demonstrated the absence of cross-transmission among patients in the MICU, despite ongoing introduction of these pathogens. Reporting culture results and isolating colonized patients, as suggested by some guidelines, would have falsely suggested the success of such infection-control policies.
Men with possible angina, even with a normal exercise test, have a greater risk of dying from coronary heart disease, having an acute myocardial infarct, or needing a CABG than age matched counterparts with no symptoms of angina.
For future audits, we recommend having two external auditors and seek to demonstrate a high degree of agreement between observers by conducting a reproducibility exercise. Future Faculty guidelines should emphasize documentation of the assessment and perhaps consider assessment tools to improve documentation.
There is a significant life expectancy benefit to HCV treatment in patients up to age 75 with advanced-stage fibrosis.
During both time periods, less than two-thirds of ETTs were located in an acceptable position. For ETTs in unacceptable positions, there were more tubes in the higher positions during the NeoBar period, and more tubes in the lower positions during the Tape-only period. Further investigation is necessary to clarify if the differences in ETT position on x-ray correlate with relevant clinical outcomes.
The maternal care fee exemption policies specifically targeted towards the poorest women had limited impact on the uptake of skilled birth care.
Despite a hiatal hernia recurrence rate of 32% 10 years after surgery, laparoscopic PEH was a successful procedure in the majority of patients; most remained symptomatically improved and required no further intervention 10 years after surgery.
The low IGN recurrence rate even with ACI and the feasibility of salvage of isolated IGN recurrence indicated that routine elective IGN irradiation is not necessary for rectal cancer with ACI.
Surgical results were similar in South Asian and non-South Asian Caucasian patients, but the incidence of pouchitis was greater in the former group.
The study found no support for the hypothesis that an increase in private sector contraceptive supply leads to higher MCPR inequality. The findings suggest that continued public sector supply of contraceptives to the poorest women protects against increased MCPR inequality. The study highlights the role of the public sector in building contraceptive markets for the private sector to exploit.
The robotic approach shows a lower conversion rate in low rectal cancer but with a longer operative time compared with the laparoscopic technique.
Although the ABCD score has some predictive value, patients with a score<4 still have a substantial probability of having a high-risk cause of cerebral ischemia or radiographic evidence of acute infarction despite transient symptoms.
Hypothermia induced by LY 300164 combined with VPA may be useful in various central nervous system disease treatments.
Potential risks of supplement intake were underestimated. Medical knowledge of the most frequent cause of blindness in the Western world was insufficient. A clear policy of recommendations according to evidence-based criteria is needed.
Optimal regression models based on wait-line sizes can provide accurate and efficient predictions for patient wait time.
Given of deleterious effects of tobacco in a large panel of human cells and specially on the male gametes, the increase of spermatozoon membrane MDA concentrations and the sperm abnormalities found in the group of smokers may be linked to cigarette smoking.
In this study, preoperative anemia in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery was not associated with increased hospital morbidity-mortality. However, ICU and hospital length of stay were longer in patients with preoperative anemia. The limitation of the sample size prevents us from confirming whether preoperative anemia is a risk factor after coronary surgery or not.
Extensive breakdown or menstrual-pattern endometrium may mask other specific benign pathologies but does not commonly mask cancer.
The main conclusion is that all three medical schools cannot rely on clerkship experiences alone to provide adequate basic skills training. A problem-based learning environment and training in a skills laboratory appear to result in students performing more skills during clerkships. Assessment of clinical skills, obligatory clerkships in specialties and general practice, and continuous monitoring of the quality of clerkships may also be strong determinants of the present findings.
Preoperative AF is a marker for increased surgical risk of mitral regurgitation repair, and a risk factor for late adverse cardiac events and stroke. Although the independent contribution of AF to late survival is uncertain, preoperative AF increases postoperative morbidity independently; therefore, corrective intervention would be expected to benefit patients in this regard.
Results suggest that pulmonary endarterectomy can be safely performed with moderate hypothermia and short periods of circulatory arrests without the need of profound hypothermia.
Lesions which appear benign on greyscale ultrasound and SWE do not require percutaneous biopsy or short-term follow-up, particularly in females under 40 years.
We identified preoperative PROM threshold values that are associated with clinically meaningful improvements in functional outcome after TKA. Patients with preoperative KOOS or SF12v2 PCS scores above the defined threshold values have a diminishing probability of experiencing clinically meaningful improvement after TKA. Patients with worse baseline mental and emotional health (as defined by SF12v2 MCS score) have a lower probability of experiencing clinically important levels of functional improvement after surgery. The results of this study are directly applicable to patient-centered informed decision-making tools and may be used to facilitate discussions with patients regarding the expected benefit after TKA.
The FIB-4 yielded good results in patients with normal or elevated ALT levels, reliably excluding advanced fibrosis and reducing the need for liver biopsy.
This study shows that cardiac indices, insulin resistance and body composition were not different between patients with complete biochemical remission and those with discordant GH and IGF-I levels. It appears that even incomplete disease control after TSS can result in improvement of these clinical markers.
The trend is towards increased prevalence of pancreatic body cancer and more advanced disease at presentation. Chemotherapy was associated with a survival benefit, although the introduction of the MDT has not significantly altered disease management.
The selective vulnerability of mesial deep cerebral structures to hypoxia, different in location from the human's, and the more effective pre-Willisian compensation, suggests to look for different animals when dealing with preterminal ischemic models comparable to the humans' as studied with MRI.
Once an aneurysm is definitely excluded, patients with n-PMN SAH have a good outcome, and like PMN SAH, have a benign clinical course. However, a second DSA is mandatory to avoid missing an aneurysm or any other vascular lesion.
The support by a headache nurse results in an increased adherence to detoxification.
With proper patient selection, laparoscopy is a feasible and safe treatment for women with large ovarian cysts and tumor size did not have effect on laparoscopic management. However, surgeons should carefully consider the potential risk of malignancy in such patients.
Phosphorus-based food additives are common in the Australian food supply. This suggests that prioritizing phosphorus additive education may be an important strategy in the dietary management of hyperphosphatemia. Further research to establish a database of food items containing phosphorus-based additives is warranted.
In contrast to radiofrequency ablation, selective bronchial intubation did not have a significant effect on the resulting ablation zones. This suggests that selective intubation may not be warranted in the setting of pulmonary cryoablation.
Plotting gas exchange data over VO2 is likely to be the method of choice for determining VT. Although a minority of children have uninterpretable X-VO, plots, VT can be reliably interpreted in the remainder. Furthermore, VT is a valid marker of aerobic capacity. Thus, VT is a useful measure of aerobic fitness in children.
High resolution dynamic magnetic resonance angiography is suitable in detecting and classifying carotid artery stenoses over 70% with high sensitivity and specificity in comparison to intraarterial digital subtraction angiography. Intraarterial digital subtraction angiography should only be performed in critical cases.
E . vermicularis was found to be more common in females and those of European descent. Seventy-seven percent of patients with E . vermicularis did not have concurrent acute inflammation of the appendix on histological examination. The question remains as to whether infestation is protective of inflammation or whether infestation causes appendiceal colic and subsequent appendicectomy of a non-inflamed appendix, thereby protective of the morbidity of acute appendicitis.
The present findings give further support for the universal concern about poor knowledge and attitudes among nurses related to the optimal management of pain. The results indicated that neither number of years working nor age influenced the level of knowledge or attitudes of the practising nurses. Oncology nursing staff consistently scored better than the rest of the cohort. This reflects that clinical experience helps to improve attitudes and knowledge concerning better pain management.
Contralateral carcinomas often have a similar mammographic appearance to the first tumours. Two factors may be responsible: (i) the tendency for contralateral carcinomas to be of the same histological grade and (ii) the influence of mammographic background pattern on the radiological appearance of breast carcinoma. This knowledge may assist in the interpretation of follow-up mammography in patients with a previous breast carcinoma.
Combined with the results of previous studies, the current case study indicates that there is evidence suggesting that the RBR reading strategy in Chinese pure alexia is of limited benefit, a result that appears fundamentally different from the LBL reading strategy.
The present study has found significant differences in tumour characteristics between women with true-negative and false-negative axillary staging ultrasound in terms of size, primary tumour histological type and presence of lymphovascular invasion. In particular, axillary ultrasound in primary lobular carcinoma may be less accurate and a negative result is more likely to be spurious than with primary ductal carcinomas.
Nail deformations are more prevalent in CVI patients (84%) then in the general elderly population, and 75% of affected nails had also onychomycosis. In these patients, itraconazole achieved only 25% total cure rate compared with the 60% to 70% cure rate commonly cited in the literature, probably due to irreversible nail deformity caused by the CVI and due to the thickened nail that prevented penetrance of itraconazole into the nail plate. Therefore, before antifungal treatment is started for onychomycosis in patients with CVI, especially in older patients, the caregiver must stress out that the final outcome might not be as desirable as in pure onychomycosis patients.
It remains questionable whether the current ICD-10 diagnosis of GAD defining 6 months as a minimum duration and requiring at least four associated symptoms for diagnosis is the most appropriate option. Using this definition, a substantial proportion of psychosocially disabled subjects characterized by anxiety, tension and worrying remain undetected, and are possibly therefore not adequately treated.
We would recommend that patients who suffer from a pump or functional nasolacrimal obstruction should receive RPC and a one-snip punctoplasty following the demonstration of a patent system on syringing. These simple procedures would not impair further investigation or lacrimal surgery if required in the future.
Significant differences in stone composition were observed as a function of anatomical abnormalities reflecting the fact that some abnormalities add infectious or metabolic risk factors to anatomical factors.
The epithelial permeability to hydrogen ions differs between healthy subjects and patients with active GERD. Effective treatment, such as omeprazole or fundoplication, might improve the barrier function.
Despite theoretical range of motion advantages of high-flexion prosthesis, there were no group differences with regard to range of motion, clinical outcomes, and the incidence of radiolucent lines at final follow-up assessment.
Surgery is a key component of locoregional treatment for breast cancers that achieved cCR to NCT.
Based on recent changes in patent law, it is not expected that Brookhill-Wilk patent will hinder the growth of cybersurgery.
We conclude that patients treated for PLD by LTX have a good long-term prognosis and excellent relief of symptoms and that LTX might be considered in severe cases of PLD, where conventional surgery is not an option.
Allowing multiple acceptable answers for questions on the NIHSS certification test introduces scoring variability. It seems reasonable to assume that the wider the range of acceptable answers in the certification test, the greater the variability in the performance of the test in trials and clinical practice by certified examiners. Greater consistency may be achieved by deriving a set of 'best' answers through expert consensus on all questions where this is possible, then teaching raters how to derive these answers using a required interactive training module.
Naloxone-triggered activation of the RRT resulted in reduced opioid-related inpatient cardiac arrests without adversely affecting pain satisfaction scores.
Trends in national use of partial cystectomy are consistent between the NIS and SEER with 13% to 17% of patients currently being treated with partial in lieu of radical cystectomy. Partial cystectomy is disproportionately used in certain medical centers (nonteaching, rural, low volume) and patient populations (elderly, black, females, stage I disease) reflecting selective referral or overuse.
Use of R-LAI was associated with lower rates of hospitalisation compared to non-use of R-LAI.
There was no significant difference in terms of the proportion of responders (patients with complete or partial response) and nonresponders in terms of painful bone metastases among patients presenting with mild, moderate, or severe pain. Patients with moderate pain should be referred for palliative RT.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of IncHI3, a newly assigned enterobacterial plasmid incompatibility group from India. This could either be a case of importation or a widely circulating NDM plasmid type in India.
To our knowledge, this is the first study to identify socio-economic disadvantage in earlier childhood as a predisposing factor for onset of all-cause disabling chronic conditions in later childhood. Temporal ordering and gradation of the response indicate socio-economic disadvantage may play a causal role. This suggests that targeting preventative efforts to reduce socio-economic disadvantage in early childhood is likely to be an important public health strategy to decease health inequalities in later childhood and early adulthood.
Previous studies have shown that up to 43% of catheterized patients had a RUV greater than 50 mL, suggesting inadequacy of bladder drainage via the Foley catheter. Our study indicated that the vast majority of patients with Foley catheters (97.6%), had adequately drained bladders with volumes of<50 mL.
We conclude that patients with an increased level of CK-MB isoenzyme (>50 IU/ml) after coronary artery surgery have a higher rate of perfusion and function deterioration. The increase of CK-MB level early after coronary bypass surgery in patients without ECG markers of perioperative infarction indicates a probable ischaemic insult during surgery.
LPR could be a useful marker to manage traumatic haemorrhagic shock therapies. In initial traumatic haemorrhagic shock treatments, it may be better to maintain CI ≥ 3.2 l/min/m(2) and Hb ≥ 70 g/l to avoid tissue ischemia. LPR could also be a useful transfusion trigger when it may demonstrate ischemia onset due to low local DO2 and early reveal low/no tissue perfusion.
In HG, both SIRT1 level and NLR increased. In HG, this occurred as a response to metabolic alterations and potential inflammation.
Combined intensity and linearity of membrane signal, although limited, resulted in the best aid (P=0.0002) in making the final score decision in borderline IHC Her2 tests similar to what is envisaged in the Her2 scoring system for gastric cancer.
While the results suggest mental health to have a modifying effect on the relationship between some atopic conditions and HRQoL caution needs to be exercised in interpreting the results: First, the groups with borderline or abnormal mental health were comparably smaller than the group with normal mental health. In the group with normal mental health small effects were more likely to become significant than in the other two groups. Secondly some problems regarding the validity of the self-report SDQ still remain.
These findings emphasize the need to monitor relatively newer anticonvulsants, lamotrigine and levetiracetam, especially among children and when other anticonvulsant comedications are prescribed or discontinued in the treatment regimen.
Genuine stress incontinence cannot be diagnosed reliably from a urological history, even when rigorous selection criteria are used in combination with a normal urinary diary. Without cystometry, incontinence secondary to detrusor instability will be missed.
Both LVMR and RVMR are similar in terms of safety and efficacy. Although not randomized, this data may suggest a better functional outcome and quality of life in patients having RVMR for ERP.
The KIDSCREEN questionnaire has adequate face and content validity as a measure of QoL in children with gastroschisis and is acceptable to both children and parents.
Infection after flexible cystoscopy is rare and not associated with significant morbidity. A much larger study would be required to determine whether antibiotic prophylaxis significantly reduces the rate of postprocedure UTI.
Overall, IPSS scores improved significantly following TURP and sexual function scored declined mildly. We detected no influence between surgeons on clinical voiding parameters and postoperative sexual function after TURP using the IPSS and IIEF-15 questionnaires.
It is not known whether the observed chromaticity of daylight is a significant factor in explaining the unexpectedly low prevalence rate of seasonal affective disorder in Iceland.
Spironolactone may be considered as a treatment option for selected chronic haemodialysis patients with heart disease.
The KTA framework facilitated knowledge synthesis and PDA development but specific standards and modifications to the KTA framework were needed to enhance process structure. Flexibility for modification and integration of PDA practice guidelines were identified as assets of the KTA framework during its application.
111Indium platelet radioactivity effectively detected acute angioplasty reocclusions, but was unable to predict subsequent angioplasty restenosis.
This paper highlights gaps in service provision in WA to people who are dying and their carers. It provides direction for occupational therapists to offer an occupation-focussed approach to the care of this vulnerable group.
Improvements in glucose regulation following a pragmatic group-based structured education with pedometer use were sustained at 24 months.
General practitioners can improve their ability to detect psychological distress in their patients utilizing this self-directed educational approach.
The premedication with DEX 0.5 μg/kg decreased postoperative agitation, pain, and analgesic requirement without significant change in the clotting tests and MAP but increased bleeding slightly during ADT.
When prophylaxis with HBIg and antiviral agents was administered, survival and HBV recurrence were not influenced by HBV-DNA levels determined by real time-PCR prior to OLT.
Endomyometrial injury is frequent at termination or dilatation and curettage after miscarriage, but the relation to subsequent placenta accreta remains unclear. Women requiring a manual removal of the placenta were likely to have had a past history of termination and/or miscarriage.
Hepaticojejunostomy without preliminary portosystemic shunting is possible in patients with portal hypertension and benign biliary stricture with acceptable morbidity and mortality rates.
In a sample of the parents of Sydney Myopia Study participants, information on the purpose of spectacle use with an age-at-first-use criterion can identify myopic refractive error with reasonable sensitivity and specificity. This four-item questionnaire may assist future epidemiological studies of screening for myopia.
The association between high numbers of unmet needs and low subjective quality of life appears increasingly robust across several studies. Future research will need to investigate whether changes in needs precede changes in quality of life. This study provides further evidence that a policy of actively assessing and addressing patient-rated unmet needs may lead to improved quality of life.
The removal of UV light (UV-) considerably reduced visual attractiveness of courting males to female three-spined sticklebacks particularly in comparison to the removal of short-wave light (SW-). We thus report first experimental evidence that the UV wave band clearly outranks at least one other part of an animal's visible spectrum (SW-) in the context of communication. In addition, females were also less attracted to males presented without long wavelengths (LW-) which supports the traditionally considered strong influence of the red color component on stickleback mate choice. Overall, the removal of medium wavelengths (MW-) and especially short (SW-) left male attractiveness for females rather unaffected. Our work suggests that, in addition to long wavelengths ("red"), the UV wave band contains important information for visual mate choice in sticklebacks. Hence, the previously suggested exclusive role of the characteristic red nuptial coloration in visual interactions between reproductively active stickleback conspecifics may be overestimated with UV wavelengths playing a more important role than previously suggested.
In this large cohort of surgical ICU patients, performance of the original SAPS II model was generally poor. Although second-level customization improved discrimination and calibration in the whole cohort and most of the subgroups, it failed to simultaneously improve calibration in the subgroups stratified according to the type of surgery, age or ICU LOS.
There is evidence for a constitutional risk factor (eg, defective pelvic floor connective tissue in the development of postpartum stress incontinence).
AP in octogenarians is a significant problem and carries a high mortality irrespective of the Glasgow severity score. Early intervention by means of ERCP is indicated to try and improve outcome in this group with biliary pancreatitis. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy must be considered as a definitive treatment in these patients as available evidence suggests that this can be performed with acceptable morbidity and mortality in this group.
RYBP in patients experiencing adjustable gastric band failure is technically demanding. Esophago-jejunostomy avoids preparation in scarred tissue whereas routine pouch formation may increase the risk for complications. Adapted procedural strategy is recommended based on intraoperative decision making.
This study indicates that a calculated volume of intravenous fluid administered during bowel preparation improves patient outcomes with respect to blood transfusion and postoperative oliguria. We advocate calculated intravenous fluid administration in all patients undergoing bowel preparation prior to colonic surgery.
The results of this study show that preparatory information in general is effective in reducing anxiety and in increasing self-confidence before an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. Results suggest that teaching subjects visualization before a procedure increases their use of visualization during a procedure.
Our study shows that the use of a new hemostatic devices reduce significantly OT and EBL in children underwent renal ablative surgery for benign pathologies compared with the use of monopolar coagulation.
Histopathological examination of breast reduction specimens may reveal important pathological diagnoses. In some cases, patients were discharged from medical care despite histopathological examination revealing lesions associated with an increased risk of developing breast carcinoma.
In conclusion, patients with LUTS are likely to present PPUI. History of TURP is influential by itself over PPUI. A good preoperative consultation is important to assess continence status and to create realistic expectations to patients before RP.
Preterm infants with RDS do not benefit from therapy with AT concentrate and may be harmed. There is also little evidence that the administration of AT reduces the risk of ICH. The role of AT replacement during neonatal sepsis remains uncertain.
Children who display more distress during play at 4 and 5 years of age and who demonstrate destructive themes at 4 and 5 years of age appear to have more externalizing behavior problems, as rated by their parents and teachers. These results provide empirical support for the use of play as an assessment tool in young children. The findings suggest approaches to and limitations of play interpretation.
Although the clinical relevance of individually elevated sphincter pressures remains uncertain, there is significant discordance of basal pressures between the biliary and pancreatic sphincter segments. If only the biliary sphincter pressure were to be measured, one fourth of abnormal sphincter pressures would be missed. Therefore, if the first sphincter segment has a normal basal pressure, the other segment should also be evaluated.
Interarytenoid paralysis and posterolateral tilt of the arytenoid were predictors of poor recovery.
This study found obesity to be associated with poor semen quality and altered reproductive hormonal profile. Weight loss may potentially lead to improvement in semen quality. Whether the improvement is a result of the reduction in body weight per se or improved lifestyles remains unknown.
In our study, one-third of patients with stage I-II TTTS regressed after a single amnioreduction, and pregnancies with resolution of TTTS usually had a favourable outcome.
The data suggest that this group of elderly patients with heart failure who received lower ACE inhibitor doses appeared to be at higher risk for clinical events.
AL significantly impairs both functional results and quality of life after laparoscopic sphincter-saving TME for rectal cancer. However, the observed difference was only limited, leading to similar outcomes on most of the tested scores. Patients with AL should be warned that if they initially experience severely impaired results, outcomes tend with time to become similar to those observed in noncomplicated patients.
Although the complication risk was higher if changing hospitals, this finding was sensitive to the type of change. Our findings build on the existing evidence of a volume-outcomes benefit for revision TJA by examining the effect of volume in view of potential patient migration.
Surgical treatment of partial anomalous pulmonary venous connections is associated with excellent outcomes. The overall incidence of late superior vena caval or pulmonary vein stenosis is low. Although not significant, the 2-patch technique might be associated with a greater incidence of sinus node dysfunction and late pulmonary venous stenosis. The late development of superior vena caval obstruction is a concern with all techniques, necessitating close follow-up.
Psychological impairments are evident in people with knee osteoarthritis following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction, compared to those without. Future studies should further investigate the psychological impairments associated with knee osteoarthritis after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction.
CT findings reduce but cannot eliminate the possibility that a nodule is malignant. Outcomes-based clinical trials are needed to determine whether CT features of benignity can guide less-invasive initial management and reverse a concerning trend in granuloma resection.
Simultaneous antegrade/retrograde cardioplegia significantly improved myocardial perfusion in jeopardized areas of the myocardium. The jeopardized myocardium was mainly perfused by the solution drained from the adjacent normal tissue. Elevated pressure at the coronary sinus during simultaneous antegrade/retrograde cardioplegia is responsible for the redistribution of antegradely delivered cardioplegic solution.
sFlt-1/PlGF ratio and uteroplacental flows significantly correlated with PE or CKD and preterm delivery.
This study shows that obese women who regain weight after dieting have significantly lower baseline leptin levels than women who maintain weight loss. Our results suggest that differences in leptin resistance might exist in similarly obese women which could influence the success of dieting.
This study illustrates that there is no additional learning curve when transitioning from one re-surfacing system to another for an experienced surgeon. It also reinforces the previously established criteria that only well-selected patients should have a hip resurfacing arthroplasty performed in order to minimize the likelihood of postoperative complications such as femoral neck fracture. The learning curve appears to be a phenomenon that only occurs once for resurfacing and is not related to the specific implant manufacturer, but rather to the nature of the operation itself.
Planning target volumes (PTVs) derived from a single slow CT scan plus a 5-mm margin covered the "optimal" PTVs generated from six scans. Although these "slow PTVs" were larger, the increase in V(20) (the volume of lung tissue receiving a dose>or = 20 Gy) was limited. This indicates that only two CT scans, i.e., a full rapid scan of the entire thorax and a limited slow scan, are necessary for treatment planning in peripheral lung cancers.
Adjuvant external-beam radiation therapy did not increase OS in non-metastatic sRCC patients.
Besides some clinical findings, CT scan can accurately determine appendiceal rupture in acute appendicitis and can further demonstrate the presence of local inflammatory mass, facilitating management decision in the emergency department (ED).
Before commencing chemotherapy, patients are already experiencing distressing symptoms and have high scores for anxiety and depression, partially explained by physical symptom distress. Patients should be routinely screened for both emotional and physical needs and appropriate interventions should be developed.
In this pilot study, we found that families in the intervention group were less satisfied with communication. Families who are primed to expect better communication, such as those participating in a communication intervention, may be less satisfied with standard care.
Cystic fibrosis patients treated with a PPI for at least 2 years show no signs of vitamin B(12) deficiency.
The results of this study indicated that bereaved relatives wanted neurologists to inform patients about the risk of SUDEP, with optimal timing and setting of SUDEP counseling determined on a case-by-case basis.
The triaxial accelerometer is a simple, objective and useful technology to measure head excursion among the occupational typists.
The incidence of prostatic carcinoma in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is low despite a high saturated fat diet in recent years. This finding contradicts most western clinical studies, which indicate a positive association of a high fat diet with prostatic carcinoma.
Resident conversations regarding CPR are insufficient in the 5 key elements of informed consent. Framing code status discussions as examples of informed consent may be an effective strategy for educating residents or may improve the quality of these discussions, potentially leading to better patient decisions.
The increasing incidence of HCC stresses limited resources. Although transplantation results in better long-term survival, limited donor availability precludes widespread application. Hepatic resection will likely remain a standard therapy in selected patients with HCC. In this large series, only about 10% of patients with cirrhosis were transplant-eligible based on tumor status. Although liver transplantation results are significantly improved compared with resection, transplantation is available only for a minority of patients with HCC.
The results show that water delivered to a dental unit should be periodically tested bacteriologically and in terms of physical and chemical properties. Water systems of dental units should also be periodically disinfected to eliminate bacteria and biofilm.
In this first study on the association of muscle strength with nocturnal enuresis, it was found that neuromuscular function is abnormal in enuretic patients. In this neuromuscular abnormality, the motor activity is affected.
This European study demonstrates a low use of cardioprotective drug therapies among patients with a combination of coronary artery disease and diabetes, which will be contributing to the poor achievement of risk factor treatment targets for cardiovascular prevention.
The type of probe significantly affects the overall prostate cancer detection rate, particularly in patients with prostate specific antigen greater than 4 ng/ml and/or nonsaturation (8 to 19 cores) prostate biopsy. This may be because the end fire probe allows better mechanical sampling of the lateral and apical regions of the peripheral zone, where cancer is most likely to reside. We set the stage for a randomized, controlled trial to confirm our observations.
It is proposed that placenta of newborns with TE in first days of life should always be examined, for its association with FTV and thus the storage of placentas for a week after birth should be routinely implemented.
This series indicates that the distal lip of a ruptured syringocele may function as a flap-valve, leading to anterior urethral obstruction. Advances in imaging and endoscopic instruments have altered the mode of presentation and management of this entity.
Higher values of T/QRS ratio in IUGR pregnancies with normal and reduced CPR than in control group regardless of the result of CTG examination may indicate minimal worsening of intrauterine fetal well-being in growth retarded fetuses. No relationship between fECG examination and CTG tracings suggests that a single fECG does not provide any additional clinically significant information determining the condition of the fetus; however, further studies are required.
Actual retail prices and reimbursement tariffs for a neck brace and a knee brace exceeded prices based on estimated costs. Therefore, there appears to be scope for reducing tariffs.
This study suggests that information obtained from evaluating a subgroup of AD or MCI subject using second-generation TSPO tracers can be translated to the entire AD and MCI population. Thus, we can study fewer AD subjects in evaluating new antineuroinflammatory and antimicroglial agents in intervention studies and in observational studies evaluating the role of neuroinflammation.
Among patients with multivessel coronary artery disease treated with PCI or CABG, the occurrence of repeat revascularization during follow-up did not fully explain the antianginal benefit of CABG in the overall population. The differential association between repeat revascularization and anginal status, according to the type of initial revascularization procedure, suggests that this end point should play a limited role in any direct comparison of the 2 treatment strategies.
Consistent with theory, dimensions of CU, ADHD, and oppositional behavior demonstrated separable nomological networks representing separable facets within early-starting CP.
Surgical repair with polypropylene mesh is safe and effective in treating infected or contaminated herniations in kidney transplant patients, with an acceptable (9.1%) incidence of recurrence.
The reduction in prenatal visits achieved using the experimental schedule was not accompanied by an increase in the use of other medical services compared with the routine schedule. The use of the schedule proposed by the Expert Panel on the Content of Prenatal Care improved the efficiency of delivery of prenatal care to low-risk women.
We could not find clinical significance to support the use of CA19-9 to predict the prognosis and detect recurrence of colorectal cancer. Because of this, we do not recommend routine use of CA19-9 in staging and surveillance of colorectal cancer patients.
Both radiographs and MRI have limitations in the evaluation of low-grade cartilage lesions. MRI has an increased rate of both true-positive and false-positive diagnosis compared to radiographs. Differences in the findings of this study compared to previous literature may reflect the influence of systematic biases.
The Outlook intervention was acceptable to patients from a variety of educational and ethnic backgrounds and offers a brief, manualized, intervention for emotional and spiritual concerns.
The complex pattern of results is more consistent with situational as opposed to pharmacological effects of alcohol on sexual aggression and suggests that prevention efforts focus on drinking contexts known to facilitate sexual activity.
Valve implantation is feasible in the venous system through a percutaneous approach. The function of this valve in that position is limited by the absence of a high pressure gradient. Animal models and improvements in the device are mandatory before considering this technique as a reliable procedure to treat chronic venous insufficiency syndrome in humans.
The present study confirms the general trend of a lower clinical performance of male neonates compared with females. In addition, the relation between fetal heart rate patterns during all stages of labor and fetal gender showed an independent association between male fetal gender and abnormal fetal heart monitoring during labor.
In the era of pPCI and aggressive antiplatelet treatment, fever is not a common symptom associated with uncomplicated AMI and thus not correlated with left ventricular function and markers of inflammation.
These results suggest a direct correlation between the risk of death and testosterone levels achieved during ADT. Based on the present results, lowering the testosterone level as much as possible should be the goal of ADT in patients with metastatic prostate cancer, as this might affect patient survival.
The study results clearly demonstrate that heart surgery in the elderly with the SJM mechanical valve can be accomplished with acceptable hospital mortality, morbidity, and excellent long-term results. Moreover, long-term QOL in elderly patients with a SJM valve can be expected to meet or exceed that of age- and gender-matched controls.
These results suggest that supervised PE in hypertensive women significantly improves cardio-respiratory and BP values, as well as vascular adaptability.
The MYO9B gene rs 2305764 polymorphism is not associated to coeliac disease in coeliac children from Southern Italy. This is in accordance with the most recent reports. Ethnic differences or a false positive result might explain the discrepancy with the Dutch study.
This study shows that gut hormones are significantly associated with thyroid hormones. Thus, there may be a cross talk between the HPT axis and gut. We would like to consider new regulatory relation for description of the found data.
The study indicated that for optimal local control, radiation treatment should be completed as soon as possible, preferably within 6.5 weeks, either by once- or twice-daily accelerated programs. The local control of early T1 glottic cancer has been exceedingly satisfactory by conventional once-daily radiation therapy. Further improvement by shortening of treatment time for such early lesions will be difficult to assess without a prospective randomized trial.
Patients with poor life expectancy progressed more than the matched surviving patients, when measured from an initially similar position, despite better IOP control.
A general health surveillance program seems to have potentials to identify infants at risk for mental health problems provided standardised measures and specific training of the involved health professionals.
We are concerned that CTA or MRA may overlook mild cases of DSA-detectable FMD. All seven FMD patients had single left renal arteries and would have undergone left donor nephrectomy. This would have resulted in their remaining right native kidneys having mild to moderate FMD in six of seven patients and in four donor kidneys having mild to moderate FMD. The need for antihypertensive medications in two of these seven potential donors within 4 years of their evaluation supports previous literature reports.
These results suggest that implantable venous access devices can be accessed at the time of device insertion to decrease painful needle punctures in children with cancer and to provide secure immediate central venous access.
Half of the patients still retain a significant benefit after 2 - 9 years of continuous MCS, and this can be reasonably predicted by preoperative rTMS. Adding drug intake and QoL estimates to raw pain scores allows a more realistic assessment of long-term benefits and enhance the rTMS predictive value. The aims of this study and its design were approved by the local ethics committee (University Hospitals St Etienne and Lyon, France).
Irrespective of level of attendance, cardiac rehabilitation programmes are not meeting the needs of many older people either in terms of risk factor reduction or programme uptake. More appropriate programmes are needed.
We can conclude that the parity is not a significant variable in the vaginal delivery of the breech presentation.
The active management of labor shortened the duration of labor and reduced prolonged labor; however, it did not decrease the cesarean section rate.
Whilst CFA waveform morphology is a useful adjunct in detection of iliac disease, normal triphasic waveforms do not exclude iliac stenosis.
The data on the eight patients who obtained local control without PRE or radiotherapy warrant further investigation. Because of the supposed high risk of contamination with subsequent microscopic residual tumor after a transcrotal approach, we emphasize the utility of PRE with hemiscrotectomy.
These simulations indicate that the optimal flow rate through operation site will be achieved in trabeculectomy using a square scleral flap with a large flap-to-sclerostomy ratio.
Tenascin-C expression was not found to be a staining characteristic of psoriasis lesions. But the significant staining intensity of the tenascin-C expression in other papulosquamous disorders suggests that tenascin-C expression might be an epiphenomenon in the papulosquamous disorders other than psoriasis immunohistochemically.
Although not all postmenopausal women who intentionally lose weight will regain it within 1 y, the data suggest that fat mass is regained to a greater degree than is lean mass in those who do experience some weight regain. The health ramifications of our findings remain to be seen.
The introduction of a colorectal clinical pathway significantly improved the outcome of patients undergoing major colorectal surgery.
This study described normal blood CRP values in a wide population of term babies. An influence of the type of delivery on blood CRP is evident, and this may be explained by the different amount of perinatal stress induced by anyone of the three types of delivery we considered.
The results favor repair, but the low level of concern about the patient's functioning reported for both TFR and WW patients suggests that this is not a major issue in delaying repair of inguinal hernias in minimally symptomatic men.
Arterial health seems to be an important determinant of muscle oxygenation during exercise. In turn, muscle oxygenation during exercise is strongly related to VO2peak. Developing training modalities to prioritize arterial health outcomes may be a useful way of improving VO2peak in this population.
The study confirms our hypothesis that SI injuries tend to be less severe than IO injuries and are more likely to occur at home rather than at a public area. This finding may be useful in the triage of patients with stab wound injuries.
Further work is required in developing a nationally recognised programme of preparation for the role.
We found no objective radiographic or functional benefit to the use of bone graft supplementation in the operative treatment of DIACFs.
Pediatric integrative medicine is emerging as a new subspecialty to better help address 21st century patient concerns.
Although collaborative research may serve as a tool to narrow the gap between research and practice, discussing the collaborative process and partner heterogeneity among the partners at the outset may be a necessary prerequisite to achieving the full potential of any partnership, which is limited by the ambivalent influence of partner heterogeneity. Collaborative research may, therefore, additionally benefit from continuous cross-domain orchestration and boundary work.
The preferential type of covering the NPA coronary excision sites in ASO should be U-shaped.
Self reported safety behaviours do not appear to be good predictors of childhood unintentional injuries. Further research is required to ascertain valid proxy outcome measures for injury research.
This study revealed that neither hs-CRP nor ferritin levels could predict functional disability 3 months after stroke onset. FIM, FAS, and NIHSS scores were more useful in predicting functional outcome 3 months after stroke onset than the laboratory markers evaluated in this study.
Flat adenomas identified in the National Polyp Study cohort at baseline were not associated with a higher risk for high-grade dysplasia initially, or for advanced adenomas at surveillance.
The findings of this study show resuscitation survival rates from a 10-year study and indicate some of the key predictors of survival.
It becomes apparent that by using "dome" in addressing carcinomas in the colorectal mucosa, many cases of GALT carcinomas might be overlooked. Another drawback of using the "dome" nomenclature is that dome-like outlines may be detected in small metastatic tumors in the submucosa or in small colorectal carcinomas not arising from GALT mucosa. Instead, by using "GALT carcinoma", that is the histologic diagnosis in addressing these neoplasias, all cases of GALT-CRCs will be included.
Bacterial and parasitic STIs are no longer a key determinant of HIV acquisition, given the current stage of the outbreak in Burkina Faso. Although efforts for STI control should be maintained, strategies should focus on nonprofessional sex workers, steady partners, and HSV-2 infection to tackle HIV transmission further in this high-risk group.
Based on the most likely hypotheses concerning disease duration and non-responding ophthalmologists' VKC case rate, the best estimate of VKC prevalence in Western Europe is 3.2/10,000 inhabitants. The prevalence of VKC with corneal complications is 0.8/10,000 inhabitants.
The presence of FVH indicates larger ischemic areas in brain parenchyma predominantly caused by proximal anterior circulation vessel occlusion. A high count of FVH might be a further surrogate marker for initial ischemic mismatch and stroke severity.
Demand for aesthetic plastic surgical procedures is expected to continue to grow, while depending on the economic performance at the macro level and changing demographic dynamics of the U.S. population. Considering all investigated factors and trends among all patients, the most commonly requested procedures by 2030 are likely to be (1) breast augmentations, (2) lipoplasties, and (3) blepharoplasties.
Given rarity of unexpected clinically significant diagnoses in pediatric adenotonsillectomy specimens, the cost and effort of analyzing each specimen histologically is difficult to justify.
Adult non-cultivated bone marrow stem cells do not seem to accelerate graft-to-bone healing in ACL reconstruction. The clinical relevance of this finding is that adult non-cultivated bone marrow stem cells apparently have a limited role in ACL reconstruction.
The grade of iAEs has a predictive value for the grade of postoperative complications in HPB surgery patients; hence, high grade of iAEs is significantly related to high grade of postoperative complications. Lactate level at the end of operation has the potential to predict the postoperative course.
Two-dimensional measured sagittal plane hip flexion angles at the deepest landing position were associated with peak joint moments of the hip and knee during DVJ and SLDVJ, while the amount of knee flexion was only associated with the hip flexion moment. Assessment of knee injury risk with two-dimensional video analysis could benefit from measuring maximal hip flexion, more so than knee flexion.
RPIS of chyluria using a single instillation a combination of povidone iodine with contrast agent is safe and effective. Use of fluoroscopy helps to determine the exact amount of sclerosing solution required to completely fill the system and therefore overfilling is avoided. Moreover, the complications, which arise due to pyelointerstitial backflow, are prevented.
This study showed that 1) greater gains in performance and V˙O2max can be achieved when higher training load is prescribed before the taper but not in the presence of F-OR; 2) peak performance is not delayed during taper when heavy training loads are completed immediately prior; and 3) F-OR provides higher risk for training maladaptation, including increased infection risks.
Despite the better hemodynamic performance documented in prior investigations, pericardial valves do not confer any survival advantage over porcine valves in patients aged 65 years or older undergoing aortic valve replacement.
A substantial proportion of surgeons in Connecticut participate in global surgery. Most surgeons value qualityin surgical care, yet outcomes are not routinely measured. This discordance may be addressed through the development of a quality improvement collaborative for global surgery.
Our study reveals no common trend in the numbers and types of procedures performed during training. The number of procedures seems to reflect the individual trainee and a local tradition rather than the particular training program. An informal competency-based assessment system with lack of quantitative requirements evidently involves a risk of skewness in training.
A plasma albumin level below 20 g/L was not found to be an independent marker for severe preeclampsia because all women with a low plasma albumin level had other adverse conditions.
In non-Marfan patients with chronic type B aortic dissection, the false lumen distal to the graft anastomosis was likely to be thrombosed when the graft was anastomosed to the true lumen only. Postoperative visceral circulation was not compromised, but spinal cord ischemia is a problem that remains to be solved.
For T1 and T2 stage, there was no evidence of pancreatic capsule metastasis, which may facilitate the decision making of the pancreatic capsule resection during radical distal gastrectomy.
Adding bone marrow aspirate to ceraform biphasic ceramic had hastened the rate of its resorption and had decreased the rate of its persistence.
The results suggest that patients' self-reporting of symptoms provides independent prognostic information for survival in patients with hematologic malignancies. These findings underscore the value of collecting patient-reported symptom data in routine clinical practice.
Previous caring experience led to worse performance in this cohort. Emotional intelligence was not a useful indicator of performance. Lower scores on the social connection factor were associated with withdrawal from the course.
Clearances of the MDM poly insert in a BHR shell are reduced, and although the majority of combinations appear safe, the indication needs to be made on an individual base carefully considering alternative treatment options.
A good surgical outcome can be obtained in large-angle strabismus with a single surgical procedure, though a randomized controlled study needs to be done to establish whether three-muscle surgeries give better results than two-muscle surgeries.
As only two of the 26 interviewed patients conform to the notion of active consumerism, we argue that the majority of patients engages in practices of passive consumerism.
The use of hyaluronidase may reduce capsule formation around implants.
We recommend that a concept of community development and explicit facilitation of the processes involved is necessary to strengthen participation, create effective partnerships and ensure inclusive decision-making.
We conclude that antihypertensive treatment with RAS inhibitors is potentially useful for preventing the development of DKD.
The feeding at the fourth hour after PEG placement was safe and well tolerated by patients and shortened the duration of the hospital stay. The use of prophylactic antibiotics seems to be unnecessary before the procedure.
Extending TPN hang time from 24 to 48 h did not alter CLABSI rate and was associated with a reduced TPN-related cost and perceived nursing workload. Larger randomised controlled trials are needed to more clearly delineate these effects.
TEPW implantation is overused in cardiac surgery and by identifying independent predictors for pacing we conclude that TEPW use should be limited to a select few.
The presence of PD activity was the most accurate determinant of flare in RA patients in remission. Flare was associated with worse clinical and functional outcomes. These results suggest ultrasound could form an important part of remission assessment in RA.
Apart from the merits of regular audit exercise and increasing experience of the staff, the Hawthorne effect might be the major contributing factor in the reduction of birth trauma and birth asphyxia related to instrumental deliveries during the study period.
Acridine orange therapy has the potential to preserve limb function without increasing the rate of local recurrence. This therapy may be useful for eliminating tumor cells with minimal damage to the normal tissue in patients with soft tissue sarcoma.
Imaging and clinical features cannot be used reliably to predict underestimation at MRgVABB. All high-risk lesions diagnosed at MRgVABB require surgical excision.
Further population-based studies are recommended. Misconceptions about tuberculosis need to be removed through focused health education messages. The importance of complete and appropriate treatment needs to be emphasised.
The results support a valuable role of FDG PET in the setting of Charcot's neuroarthropathy by reliably differentiating it from osteomyelitis both in general and when foot ulcer is present.
The quality and completeness of reporting should be enhanced as a priority, because without this policymakers and practitioners will continue lack the evidence base they need to inform decision-making about health inequity. Furthermore, there is a need to develop methods to systematically consider impacts on equity in health status that is currently lacking in systematic reviews.
Hyperinsulinaemia may be pathogenetically involved in syndrome X patients, in close relation to the higher sympathetic drive that characterizes this syndrome. However, the wide range of insulin values, frequently overlapping with normal values, limits the usefulness of this abnormality as a marker of the syndrome.
Modest success at low risk can be expected from PTRA in a group of patients with severe atherosclerosis. No significant difference in results between ostial and nonostial lesions was noted.
Remote evaluation of trauma victims is feasible. Accurate clinical data can be recorded, tasks delegated, and therapeutic measures advised using telemedicine. This can make expert trauma care available to hospitals without advanced trauma systems and potentially reduce cost, prevent unnecessary transfers, and promote early transfer when indicated.
Referral-management schemes did not reduce outpatient attendance rates. RMCs were more expensive than internal peer review.
By definition, acute behavioral change during generalized epileptiform discharges represent provoked seizures. Detecting subclinical seizures can have important safety implications in children (skiing, skating and driving) with PPR on EEG, but no clinical seizures. We recommend MRT during IPS.
The CT failed to prove to be significantly superior to the chest XR + clinical picture in indicating a change in treatment approach in patients with unresectable locally advanced NSCLC after CHT.
In patients with functionally active neuroendocrine neoplasm, an RV-LV ratio of more than 1.07 predicted TR with a relatively high sensitivity and moderate specificity and thus could serve as an indicator of subclinical carcinoid heart disease on routine staging CT.
This study showed that success by RFVTR in ITH could be predicted by preoperative TVDT. Improvement by RFVTR depends on how much the patient's turbinates respond to TVDT, but not how much he/she complains of nasal obstruction.
Our results suggest that elevated cystatin C levels in diabetic patients may identify a certain degree of renal dysfunction even when albuminuria and eGFR do not mirror CKD. Longitudinal studies with direct GFR measures need to be done in order to confirm the value of cystatin C as an indicative of worse renal outcomes in the diabetic population.
We conclude that Limberg flaps with no drains in place will result in shorter hospital stays without deleteriously affecting the surgical results of wide excision and primary closure with well-vascularized tissue.
Emergency medicine residents have much access to computer technology and possess some computer skills; however, many are unable to produce a usable product or conduct a literature search. Emergency medicine residents have not had sufficient computer training prior to residency. The computer skills of EMRs should be assessed through skills testing rather than self-assessment, and computer training during residency should be improved.
Although 5 consecutive cases of pancreaticoduodenectomies represent very low volume compared with high-volume adult centers, minimal difference in operative time, length of stay, and mortality (none) were observed in this series. Therefore, unlike adults, particular case volume in the pediatric population may not be a significant factor because of the nature of pancreatic pathology, patient characteristics, and hospital and surgical environment.
The MF approach has been described as being the better technique for VS surgery in terms of auditory results. However, this claim lacks statistical substantiation because no prospective studies are to be found in the literature. The present longitudinal investigation shows that the MF approach does not afford any particular advantages over the RS-TM route in terms of auditory results in intracanalicular VS, with the exception of tumors reaching the IAC fundus.
Incremental, patentable innovation in devices to extend the overall patent protection of medicine/device product combinations is very common. Whether this constitutes "evergreening" depends on whether these incremental innovations and the years of extra patent protection they confer are proportionately matched by therapeutic improvements in the standard of care, which is highly debatable.
PCS discussions sometimes do not occur. Important barriers to discussion are inadequate time for health maintenance, physician forgetfulness, and patient characteristics. Future research should explore using educational and decision support interventions to involve more patients in PCS decisions.
This study provides in vivo evidence that bipolar patients on lithium treatment exhibit a decreased relative amount of PIP2 in the platelet cell membranes compared to normal controls.
Abandoned HV leads did not increase the risk of ICD system-related complications in the majority of patients. Thus, a general lead extraction policy of dysfunctional HV leads cannot be advised in an average ICD population. Recommendations may not apply for young and physically active patients, in whom HV lead extraction must be considered.
The correct recognition of TCV-PTC features in preoperative FNA is important for clinical management, and reporting these features in a cytopathology report is suggested.
rATG-induced renal transplants recipients treated with sirolimus, cyclosporine, and steroids show a significantly increased incidence of postoperative incisional hernias and a trend toward a greater number of lymphocele and wound infection complications.
Cryptococcal infection is generally associated with immunosuppression. We suggest that sarcoidosis, although non symptomatic, may be a condition that promote the onset of cryptococcal infection. Even rare, cryptococcal infection is the most frequent opportunistic infection recorded with sarcoidosis patients. Histologic similarities between sarcoidosis and cryptococcal infection and the role of the macrophages which phagocyte the Cryptococcus neoformans are one of the hypothesis to assess these pathologic findings. A register is warranted to recover all opportunistic infection related to sarcoidosis in order to better understand the pathogeny.
Complete retained placenta and retained parts of the placenta share the same risk factors. Epidural analgesia does not directly influence the incidence of complete retained placenta or retained parts, though clinically linked through increased oxytocin use. The factors that were independently associated with interventions for placental disruption during the third stage of delivery were previous cesarean section, oxytocin use and older age.
In patients with significant PR after repair of TOF, PVR had clinical benefits including symptomatic improvement with low mortality and morbidity. Proper timing must be carefully selected according to objective evaluation of RV function. In our study, earlier PVR prior to symptomatic manifestation showed beneficial effects.
Lack of education and awareness of glaucoma were major risk factors for late presentation.
Beyond the analgesia provided by the regional anesthesia of the ilioinguinal and field blocks, the preoperative use of ketorolac further reduced postoperative pain scores and the need for additional postoperative analgesic medication. Comparable outcomes for the i.v., i.m. and i.w. groups indicate the lack of any benefit to concentrating the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug at the wound (i.w.) or to achieving high blood levels rapidly (i.v.). In conclusion, ketorolac is a useful supplement to ilioinguinal plus field block regional anesthesia for hernia surgery and is most effective administered parenterally.
Once PMAS patients are well stabilized, maintaining a PMAS follow-up or transferring them to their physician is associated with excellent INR control. However, long-term PMAS follow-up may be more expensive.
Based on the observed trends in the incidence of breast cancer following the decline in HRT use, the ecological evidence is too limited either to support or refute the possibility that HRT causes breast cancer.
Although these data do not address the role of antiplatelet agents, early anticoagulation with warfarin after bioprosthetic aortic valve replacement did not appear to protect against neurologic events.
Based on our study of the 2-year post-treatment mammograms, there was no evidence that closure technique impacts degree of scarring in the tumor bed. However, striking interobserver variability in scoring density and scarring was noted.
Tertiary surgery after autologous breast reconstruction failure has limited options and further reoperations are often needed. Careful patient history and selective blood tests may reveal hidden coagulation disorders. When a second free flap is planned, primary and secondary antithrombotic therapy should be considered.
Dexamethasone was equally effective in controlling PONV in tonsillectomy and adenotonsillectomy patients. The improved benefit of using ondansetron over dexamethasone, on a regular basis, does not justify the added cost.
These results suggest that (90)Y-DOTA-epratuzmab is a promising agent for the treatment of NHL and warrants further study. There was evidence suggesting that in this system, factors other than tumor radiation dose and targeting may be involved in the success of radioimmunotherapy.
An increase in Hsp-90a concentrations in patients with arterial hypertension may be a compensatory mechanism for the impaired bioavailability of nitric oxide. The role of Hsp-90a as an early marker of hypertension-associated endothelial injury should be confirmed in further studies on a larger group of patients.
The positive relation between maternal prepregnancy BMI and offspring bone mass is likely due to shared familial, genetic, and environmental characteristics rather than to an intrauterine mechanism.
Our results provide insight into factors possibly conferring susceptibility to the acute effect of urban air pollution.
Strong BPE is a significant independent factor for positive resection margin along with positive extensive intraductal component, and performing MRI during the period of lower parenchymal enhancement is needed in patients with strong BPE.
Tear calcium level has no diagnostic importance for the development of ocular calcification in chronic renal failure.
This direct measurement of clinical behavior revealed that low levels of preventive care provided by trainees are resistant to skills training without reinforcement in clinical practice. In view of the importance of prevention in routine consultations, we recommend continued evaluation of more intensive educational programs. Those withstanding rigorous evaluation could be considered for implementation in similar training contexts seeking to improve the frequency and quality of disease prevention in primary medical care.
Children with blunt abdominal trauma and a normal abdominal CT scan in the ED are at very low risk of having a subsequently diagnosed IAI and are very unlikely to require a therapeutic intervention. Hospitalization of children for evaluation of possible undiagnosed IAI after a normal abdominal CT scan has a low yield and is generally unnecessary.
The two techniques provide no different pain control capacity. The periarticular multimodal drug injection was associated with lower rates of vomiting and pruritus.
Swedish CUP survivors had a higher risk of developing many subsequent cancers. Different patterns of risk excess may be suggestive of possible roles for disease- and therapy-related immunosuppression, reappearance of hidden primary tumors, or genetic predisposition.
Although its use has increased progressively in the last decade, the dissemination of laparoscopy for renal cell carcinoma has been generally slow and limited in scope. The next step in this body of work is to identify specific technical, educational and policy interventions that will influence the diffusion of this alternative standard of care.
Survivors of stroke with cognitive, language, or global impairments are able to participate in self-management programs and should be included in these types of research studies or programs. Reduced participation by those with global disability and the possibility of more adverse events in people with cognitive impairments needs to be considered.
Compliance of APLS instructors with current international recommendations during simulated infant CPR is poor. The TT technique provided improved CD compliance, while the TF technique provided superior DC compliance. If this reflects current clinical practice, optimisation of performance to achieve international recommendations during infant CPR is called for.
The mean value of LS measured by transient elastography in "normal" subjects was lower than 5 kPa. Age does not modify the LS.
Short sleep duration does not predict an increased risk of being overweight/obese in older women. This observation, together with our previously reported results in younger subjects, suggests that the sleep-body fat relationship progressively becomes less detectable with increasing in age.
Increasing age, female gender and smoking increased the risk of peritonitis. Identifying these risk factors will assist in the selection, training and monitoring of our PD population.
We conclude that the sites in Zackenberg can be considered true background sites providing baseline concentrations of at least eight elements for comparable monitoring studies.
Providing better guidance than a living will in determining a patient's EOL treatment preferences are (1) knowledge about a patient's religiosity, (2) patient's wishes for longevity, and (3) patient's wishes for following family preferences. Wishes for dignity and pain management and reluctance to burden others do not offer better guidance than a living will.
For conversations about sexual health, young urban parents prefer private forms of communication; thus, social networking sites may not aid STD interventions.
The analysis of the available clinical data from multiple institutions support that breast cancer has a low ratio of α/β, encouraging hypofractionated radiotherapy regimens for breast cancer.
Impaired eye contact is a unique characteristic of children with CU traits; these impairments are largely independent of maternal behaviour, but associated with psychopathic traits in the fathers. These impairments should be tested for functional significance and amenability to change in longitudinal and treatment studies.
Unexpected pulmonary embolism is relatively common, is potentially predicted by donor history (but not by arterial blood gas analysis or chest radiograph), and is associated with primary graft failure. Donor lungs with risk factors of pulmonary embolism should undergo an exploratory flush. When pulmonary embolism is diagnosed, further therapeutic strategies must be considered.
Database differences in population characteristics and in data definitions, recording, quality and completeness had a minimal impact on key statistical outputs. The results uphold the validity of research using CPRD and QResearch by providing independent evidence that both datasets produce very similar estimates of treatment effect, leading to the same clinical and policy decisions. Together with other non-independent replication studies, there is a nascent body of evidence for wider validity.
It is quite necessary to know which specific disease and treatment-related problems can trigger suicide ideations in men with prostate cancer and to try to direct treatment, care, and psychosocial resources to alleviate these problems in time.
Patient-family intraclass correlation coefficients were sufficiently close for us to consider using family members to help assess intensive care unit patients' symptoms. Relatively low intraclass correlation coefficients between intensive care unit clinicians' and patients' symptom ratings indicate that some proxy raters overestimate whereas others underestimate patients' symptoms. Proxy overestimation of patients' symptom scores warrants further study because this may influence decisions about treating patients' symptoms.
CAD mammography proved more useful for the junior than for the senior radiologist, improving sensitivity. The CAD system may represent a useful educational tool for mammography.
The new protein extraction protocol does not interfere in isoeletric focusing of 2-DE gels. Furthermore, it provides the greatest sharpness in detecting protein bands of SDS-PAGE gels. This will allow mapping and searching of new external root resorption markers, particularly due to the difficulty in carrying out molecular tests with the current candidates for protein markers.
ESD of giant colorectal LSTs appears to be a feasible and curative treatment, even though it is associated with a higher adverse event rate, higher degree of technical difficulty, and longer procedure time.
In patients with primary HPT and a negative sestamibi scan, most patients (67%) will have a single adenoma. These patients benefitted from additional localization tests, which yielded a positive result in 52% of patients. Therefore, even in the setting of a negative sestamibi scan, the majority of patients with primary HPT are still candidates for MIP.
This study provided the first evidence supporting the validity of the mapping function for converting EQ-5D-5L profile data into a utility-based index score.
Signs and symptoms are inconsistently associated with persistent corneal abrasions. Asymptomatic patients may have persistent corneal abrasions, suggesting the need for selective follow-ups.
We did not detect any reduction in the ICD efficacy at the time of implant or during follow-up in patients receiving a non-apical RV lead.
The use of gadolinium has minimal impact in the follow-up MR assessment of pancreatic cystic lesions.
Low-frequency and low-intensity TUS enhanced thrombolysis by mtPA in a rabbit femoral artery occlusion model. This technique should be clinically useful for thrombolysis in acute ischemic stroke.
In heart transplant patients, BNP levels positively correlated with ventricular diameters and a restrictive filling pattern. An increase in right ventricle and pulmonary artery pressures was associated with elevated BNP values.
History of late-preterm did not predict MPCV, MOP, or HCU in healthy children. Future research is needed in larger more diverse samples to better understand causal relationships and develop strategies to lessen risks of MPCV and MOP.
Twenty-eight percent of all female soccer players and 34% of those players who returned to soccer had a second ACL tear. Soccer players had an increased rate of both graft tear and contralateral ACL injury compared with similar non-soccer athletes. Older age and return to soccer were significant risk factors for graft rupture.
Overall, ACT knowledge among frontline health care providers is very poor. This finding suggests that efforts are needed to improve knowledge of prescribers and dispensers working in first-level health care facilities, perhaps through implementing focused, provider-oriented training programmes. Additionally, a system for regularly monitoring and evaluating the quality of in-service training may be beneficial to ensure its responsiveness to the needs of the target health care providers.
Agreement regarding peer-review recommendations for publication in spine journals appears to be better than would be expected in the random situation; but still only "slight." This suggests that review methodology varies considerably among reviewers and that further study should be undertaken to determine "ideal" agreement levels and ways to increase review consistency/quality commensurate with the editorial missions of the journals.
Prostatic calculi had no significant association with chronic inflammation and clinical parameters of BPH. Chronic inflammation was associated with the volume of the prostate and storage symptoms; thus, it is not only presumed to be related to the progression of BPH, but may also be one of the causes of lower urinary tract symptoms.
Colposcopy was not helpful in identifying an unsafe product: the conclusions reached using naked eye examination alone were more alarming regarding the safety of N-9 than reached by including colposcopy. Recommendations include: (1) naked eye examinations should be continued in microbicide studies; (2) colposcopy may be considered for early studies, such as first-in-human studies, but has no place in large studies; and (3) colposcopy should be replaced as soon as possible with a more objective validated biomarker of HIV risk.
This study provides preliminary support for the TM after assault injuries. The TM index may be a first step toward an assessment that can differentiate individuals who are amenable to violence prevention intervention from those who are not.
Although most reverse vein graft abnormalities detected by duplex surveillance and prompting graft revision appear within the first postoperative year, many are not detected on the initial examination. In our recent experience 31% of duplex abnormalities leading to vein graft revision were first detected more than 6 months after operation. Discontinuation of graft surveillance based on normal early findings will result in thrombosis of some vein grafts that may otherwise be salvaged.
Patients with multisegmental areas of high signal intensity on T2-weighted magnetic resonance images tended to have poorer surgical results. However, the transverse area of the spinal cord at the level of maximum compression was a better prognostic indicator.
Loss of plakoglobin immunoreactivity from the intercalated disks appears to be the endpoint of complex pathologic changes, and our functional data suggest that yet unknown posttranslational modifications of desmoglein-2 might be involved.
Individuals manifesting comparatively poor mobility at the commencement of physiotherapy may recover their mobility, but not perceived function, more quickly if streamed to supervised therapy.
The therapy with hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors associated to hypocholesterolemic diet controlled efficiently dyslipidemia in elderly patients. Diet alone could not control cholesterol and triglycerides levels, mainly because of lack of adherence of the patients to the diet. Based on the fact that dyslipidemia is a major, independent cardiovascular risk factor, we consider that therapy with hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme-A-reductase inhibitors is beneficial in elderly patients because of their efficacity, minimal side effects and protection against sudden death, myocardial infarction and stroke.
This study reveals that most patients with primary ULDVT are treated with anticoagulation alone probably based on protocols for lower limb deep vein thromboses which results in an unacceptable high number of patients (33.3%) with persisting disability. Therefore, we suggest a more proactive approach in such patients with evaluation for thoracic outlet compression.
Patients with DWI lesion volume ≥70 mL can benefit from recanalization after intravenous recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator. This may partly reflect a larger amount of DWI lesion reversal.
In previously healthy persons, a modest statistically insignificant prolongation of the Q-Tc interval without clinical consequences was observed after completion of a course of 3 g of azithromycin administered over a period of 5 days for solitary erythema migrans.
The absorption rate of montelukast was not altered when administered with desloratadine. This study suggested that desloratadine does not influence the bioavailability of montelukast, and their combination therapy can be used safely.
The WHO classification enables identification of low-grade NET patients who may be suitable for hormonal treatment. Octreotide LAR was seen to be effective in controlling the disease and was well tolerated. However, eight patients failed to respond to the treatment, despite histological evidence of a well differentiated tumour according to the new classification. This suggests that further histological examination should be carried out, especially in patients with visceral metastases and a short disease-free interval.
Over a mean 8-year follow-up, hypoglycaemia emerges as a marker for substantially increased all-cause and cancer mortality among patients with CAD presenting with low fasting glucose levels.
Family functioning and maternal psychopathology in early and middle childhood and children's stress levels were associated with children's working memory and executive functioning.
Non-uremic hepatitis C virus infected patients appear to have more active and progressive liver disease than hepatitis C virus infected patients on hemodialysis. Regular follow-up of uremic patients, associated with earlier detection of hepatitis C virus infection, so as suggested uremia-associated impaired immunoreactivity and increased levels of hepatocyte growth factor described recently, might be implicated in a more favorable course of hepatitis C virus infection in uremic patients. In addition, due to the absence of normal liver histology in either group of hepatitis C virus infected patients, we propose liver biopsy to be mandatory in all these patients, provided that no contraindications exist clinically.
The traditional Polynesian concepts of very large body sizes being considered healthy and attractive are not evident in the modern day Cook Islanders. The excessive pursuit of western fashions for small female body size may have longer term detrimental effects in Polynesian women.
The transfer of residents from RACF to ED is influenced by multiple interrelated factors, and strategies to reduce transfer should address these.
Topographical assignment of 'spots' with high FDG uptake is superior with PET/CT compared to PET alone. Fused PET/CT has a slightly higher sensitivity and accuracy rate for diagnosis and locoregional staging of primary pancreatic lesions compared to CT alone. PET and PET/CT perform equally well in screening for recurrent or progressive pancreatic cancer, with high accuracy. Due to its unlimited access, lower radiation exposure and cost, multidetector row CT remains the imaging technique of choice for diagnosis, staging and screening for recurrent pancreatic cancer.
The presumption that the healthy middle ear is colonized by bacteria from the nasopharynx is unsubstantiated.
The doses evaluated at CT1 represent an underestimate, whereas those obtained at CT2 represent an overestimate of the actual delivered protracted permanent implant dose. Based on these results and consideration of the dynamic nature of the dose distribution, target coverage obtained with intraoperative planning using the nomogram predicted activity is consistent with published guidelines for a quality implant and critical structure doses are within tolerance.
Serum Klotho levels correlate with CFR in a healthy population. Low serum Klotho levels may potentially identify patients with impaired CFR.
The odds ratios for tenure suggest that tenure is positively associated up to a threshold level and then declines. Implying that LHD financial performance is sensitive to leader tenure.
Platelet SDF-1 surface expression did not show any significant difference in patients with TIA and ischaemic stroke compared with patients with NI events. Thus, single biomarker evaluation of platelet SDF-1 surface expression is not helpful to predict ischaemic stroke.
Ngong is a 'hypoendemic' focus with likely low grade indigenous transmission in isolation from meso/hyperendemic areas. Consequently, transmission from hypoendemic areas could contribute to rapid disease recrudescence in the post-treatment phase of adjacent former meso and hyperendemic areas.
In our cohort of Ro/SS-A antibody-positive patients, an overall increased risk of malignancy was noticed. Regular screening tests including imaging and laboratory values are justified in Ro/SS-A antibody-positive patients who exhibit the mentioned clinical criteria.
fibrin glue application is associated with a significant reduction in lymphatic complications.
Employee age groups differed significantly regarding musculoskeletal complaints, resulting work impairment and desirable adjustments in work. Age-specific preventive measures for musculoskeletal complaints could be useful to keep employees healthy to perform their job until retirement and may reduce the costs associated with absenteeism and health care.
An increase of tularemia cases occurred in 2007/2008 in both species. Complementary studies are needed to identify the species reservoir in France to understand the causes of this peak of cases.
Endothelin blockade does not influence the immediate perioperative myocardial blood flow after coronary bypass grafting. There is no significantly increased myocardial outflow of endothelin, and endothelin does not have any influence on the basal tone of the coronary vessels in the early phase after coronary bypass grafting.
Giving patients an information booklet at discharge from hospital appreciably increased the accuracy and thoroughness of their recall of important medical details concerning their illness and its treatment. The booklet was shown to be feasible, helpful in the outpatient clinic, and preferred by most general practitioners.
Our data showed an auditory dysfunction in patients affected by severe OSAS, suggesting that severe OSAS could represent a risk factor for auditory pathway.
Overweight and obese women underestimated self-reported pre-pregnancy weight&overestimated GWG, thereby mistakenly categorizing IOM guidelines.
The rate of initiation and overall duration of breastfeeding reached the WHO objectives, but exclusive breastfeeding duration has still not reached satisfactory levels at 6 months. Given that the maternal infant feeding attitude is the only factor independently related to breastfeeding duration for the whole first year of life, reliable measures of maternal attitude could be used as a first step in targeting and assessing interventions that promote and sustain breastfeeding.
The relationship between depression symptom scores and seizure frequency in those with epilepsy is bidirectional.
This study of couples in Zambia found adherence was not enhanced by having a partner on ART, and that adherence declined over time. Partners on ART may not necessarily provide support for adherence to each other. Partners may represent an untapped resource for optimizing adherence; results highlight the need for provider guidance and structured adherence interventions targeting partner adherence support.
In a model that controlled for variables, increased travel distance from a patient's residence to the surgical hospital was associated with an increase in length of stay. If length of stay is a reportable quality measure in patients undergoing colorectal surgery, significant travel distance should be accounted for in the risk adjustment model calculations.
The results of transluminal carotid angioplasty, in this short series, are encouraging in this group of high-risk morbidity and mortality (elderly patients, bilateral carotid lesions, multiple coronary arterial grafts).
scMTX seems a useful treatment step after oral MTX in a tight control strategy, whereas the ciclosporin step seems ineffective.
Patients report many events that are not documented in the medical record; some are serious and preventable. Hospitals should consider monitoring patient safety by adding questions about adverse events to postdischarge interviews.
We theorize that these hematomas are due to septal fractures and may represent a forme fruste or possibly a precursor lesion of more typical septal fibrosis. Ultrasonographic evaluation may allow earlier identification and treatment of occult septal injuries or lesions and prevent subsequent fibrosis and its associated symptoms.
Interventional MRI can produce images of posteroanterior mobilisation. Dynamic imaging of the procedure produced images of unsuitable quality for analysis. The quasi-static images of suggested that the application of a posteroanterior mobilisation to the cervical spine produces minimal if any intervertebral motion, but significant soft tissue deformation of the overlying structures.
NS in children is not characterized by significant loss of CRP into the urine. Therefore, sCRP may serve as a reliable marker of inflammation in this setting. The significant urinary excretion of CRP in children with transient non-renal infectious disease might be attributable to CRP synthesis in renal epithelial cells.
Molecular tests could be used for culture confirmation where available. Roche cobas 4800 Chlamydia trachomatis/Neisseria gonorrhoeae (CT/NG)CT/NG gonorrhoea diagnosis is superior to culture with urogenital and rectal positives not requiring confirmation. Roche cobas 4800 oropharyngeal NG detection findings warrant further prospective study of routine confirmatory testing accounting for its cost and clinical usefulness.
The position of the patient's head when awake after anesthesia may have an influence on tube occlusion. In this study, the tube located superiorly was occluded more often. This tendency remained during the follow-up. We concluded that there is a possible association between the position of the head during early recovery and occlusion of the tympanostomy tube.
The detection of AgNOR protein amount may give information about the CMY levels and be used to detect the CO intoxication levels instead of COHb in later periods.
Increasing the number of bipolar radiofrequency volumetric tissue reduction treatment sessions was associated with better intermediate-term outcome. This was confirmed using subjective and objective methodology.
This study shows that primary closure of buccal mucosal graft bed improves pain as well as oral intake in the immediate postoperative period. There are no long-term differences.
The original additive and logistic EuroSCOREs overpredicted mortality in this patient group, whereas the age-unrelated EuroSCORE was better in predicting mortality.
Kidney and renal pelvis cancer mortality rates increased significantly with a low physician population density. We found a suggestive but not significant negative association between physician population density and mortality rates for prostate cancer and bladder cancer but not for cancer at all sites. Low family income was associated with higher cancer rates.
Use of ICPs to screen patients involved in staff blood exposures during regular hours may be the most efficient method of follow-up, particularly if supplemented by a backup team of health professionals on nights and weekends. Although screening all patients for HBV/HIV may detect patients with undisclosed high-risk behaviors, institutions must decide whether the practice is cost-effective in areas of low prevalence.
When a high level of standardization of the patch test technique with the same test system was used, there were no differences in patch test reactions and sites of application on the upper back.
Physician education on tobacco counseling is associated to increased comfort and practice in advising patients who smoke. Tobacco cessation training might increase the success rate of helping patients to quit smoking.
The additional discharge information questions and the new coordination of care questions significantly improved the psychometric properties of the CAHPS Hospital Survey.
An ILI of diet and exercise may prevent the development of knee pain among those at high risk in the short term. Health care providers may consider recommending diet and exercise as a means to prevent the development of knee pain among those at high risk.
LADG would be a safe and feasible operation for patients with gastric cancer with systemic comorbidity, without reducing radicality, losing the advantages of minimally invasive surgery, or increasing operative risk.
In this hospital population, the white and black female survival difference, which was highly significant when only univariate analyses were considered, became marginally significant after controlling for other prognostic factors.
IOUS performed during open partial nephrectomy for resection of RCC shows additional findings compared with preoperative cross-sectional imaging that may alter surgical management.
Sixty percent of mothers cannot recall accurately at least one major labor management event. Studies that rely on patient recall of obstetric variables are likely to have high error rates.
With its universal surveillance of sex workers entering the profession, attention to rapid and confidential intervention and case management, and primary prevention of trafficking-including microcredit and educational programmes for children of sex workers-the SRB approach stands as a new model of success in anti-trafficking work.
Dry roasting and lightly salting nuts do not appear to negate the cardioprotective effects observed with raw nut consumption, and both forms of nuts are resistant to monotony. Public health messages could be extended to include dry roasted and lightly salted nuts as part of a heart healthy diet.
Among patients with NHL, breast cancer, or lung cancer, shorter courses of filgrastim prophylaxis may increase the risk of hospitalization.
The results showed no evidence of a relationship between frontal asymmetry, quality of life and depression in the elderly. Future studies on frontal asymmetry should carefully consider the effects of age.
Fissureless fissure-last VATS lobectomy is a feasible and equivalent to conventional VATS lobectomy in terms of operation time, stapler use and complications. Fissureless fissure-last VATS lobectomy, however, appears to be a superior technique to conventional VATS lobectomy in terms of preventing PAL and reducing the LOS.
TTC is associated with intensification of NO signaling relative to that in normal age-matched females. Our data are consistent with this intensified signal's potential contribution to the extent of initial myocardial injury, but conversely to accelerated recovery.
The stability of the implants placed in the maxilla and mandible showed a similar evolution in the ISQ values and, consequently, on osseointegration; however, the implants in the mandible presented superior values at all time points.
Tumor contrast enhancement 24 h after intravenous Ferumoxtran-10 administration seems to be well correlated to tumor proliferative index and tumor growth and could be used as an indirect marker of tumor proliferation.
Differentiating between positive and problematic interactions prior to PBSCT helps to recognise detrimental forms of social support. Future research should investigate the clinical implications and help tailor psychotherapeutic intervention.
Increased Q-angle and decreased LDFA may be associated with PFPS although cause or effect cannot be established. There was no relationship between the Q-angle and lower extremity malalignment. Large prospective longitudinal studies are needed to detect changes in the femoral anteversion and toe-in gait and to establish if these features are a cause of PFPS.
The CAGE and the MAST were both characterized by low sensitivities at conventional cutoff points, but the CAGE was significantly more effective than the MAST in discriminating between elderly medical outpatients with and without alcohol abuse or dependence.
Combined application of Valsalva maneuver and pneumatic cuff techniques will lead to more accurate evaluation and increased detection of lower extremity venous insufficiency.
Overall our study highlighted the comparative rarity of inappropriate admissions, but did indicate that such patients may have long lengths of stay or repeated admissions which, as well as the amount of resources involved, prevent the bed from being used by other patients.
The overall outcomes were comparable between the patient groups with computed tomography vs. those without computed tomography, exceptfor the superiority of postoperative intra-articular alignment in patients with computed tomography. Open reduction and internal fixation were more frequently performed in the patients with computed tomography than patients without computed tomography.
VPET 2 was administered in an ED with a high rate of enrollment and completion. This may be a feasible screening tool for use in the ED for determining which youth have the highest levels of violence exposure. A brief validated version of VPET 2 could be a valuable tool in ensuring that youth most at-risk are identified and provided appropriate referrals and services.
This is not related to limitations of active or passive ROM but may be due to impaired proprioception or pathologic movement patterns, or both.
Our data suggest that serum melatonin levels may contribute to the pathogenesis of idiopathic scoliosis.
Vouchers, even when distributed randomly within a population of rural Midwestern women, can significantly improve compliance rates. Vouchers are no less effective a means of increasing screening among vulnerable women than among other women.
These results show a highly effective regimen in terms of pCR with a good toxicity profile in the neoadjuvant treatment of patients with breast cancer. The addition of trastuzumab increased pCR rate in Her2+ tumors.
This study suggested that fat deposition in the liver does not affect the liver stiffness measurement determined by ARFI.
RA is associated with significant LBM deficits, with greater deficits observed in men. Future study may help elucidate the mechanisms driving greater deficits among men.
Standardized sets of text terms used to identify and classify hospital ED chief complaints into syndrome categories might require modification on the basis of hospital idiosyncrasies in recording chief complaints. Signal investigations could be reasonably conducted by using local health department resources. Although no communicable disease events were identified, the system provided baseline and timely objective data for hospital visits and improved communication among county health department and hospital ED staff.
Enucleation of liver haemangiomas is safer, quicker and associated with less morbidity than liver resection. Except for some situations, such as uncertain diagnosis or total replacement of a lobe, we recommend enucleation as the surgical procedures of choice for the treatment of hepatic haemangiomas.
In an acute pig model, maintenance of cerebral hypothermia does not appear to be the principal mechanism by which RCP provides better brain protection than HCA alone. Retrograde cerebral perfusion provides nutrient flow/oxygen to brain tissue, leading to better brain protection than HCA alone.
Given the high background frequency of intermediate alleles in several populations, the possibility of developing HD would have huge implications for 1-7% of the normal population. It is possible that IAs present as an endophenotype with the potential of subsequent clinical manifestations. However, given the scarcity of convincing cases, the lack of convincing biological evidence for pathogenicity of intermediate alleles, and many genes still to be discovered for HD mimics, we find that it is premature to claim that IAs can cause HD. We recommend systematic follow up of this group of individuals and if possible brain pathology for confirmation or exclusion of HD.
The early provision of test results had no impact on patient reassurance. The study suggests the identification and targeting of patients high in cardiac anxiety may be a better method for improving reassurance than reducing the waiting time for results following medical testing.
A non-self DNA-binding protein such as human polyomavirus large T antigen may render DNA immunogenic upon binding to nucleosomes when expressed in vivo. This is indicated by the strong correlation between antibodies to T antigen and antibodies to DNA or TBP and is consistent with a hapten-carrier model. This model implies cognate antigen-selective interaction of T antigen-specific T helper cells and DNA-specific B cells or B cells specific for other components of nucleosomes, consistent with the results of previous experiments.
Our results indicate that the neonatal CPK level is not an appropriate marker for retrospectively predicting either asphyxia or FHR abnormality. There are influencing factors other than asphyxia that increase neonatal CPK. Therefore, one should be careful when making a diagnosis of perinatal hypoxia based solely on increased levels of neonatal CPK after birth.
It was difficult to ascertain whether residents with better ICS scores had higher PR, PC, and MK scores because of the halo effect, improper completion of evaluations, or whether those residents were truly performing better clinically. External measures of resident performance did not correlate with faculty/peer evaluations of ICS and PR. Residency programs should consider adopting a more standardized way to objectively evaluate residents.
Despite previous recommendations, grip and pinch measurements were not helpful when used as a routine screening test for neurological dysfunction for children with meningomyelocele and hydrocephalus.
Fifty-five percent of patients transferred for primary PCI in the northern panhandle of West Virginia met the recommended guidelines. This is an improvement on the national average of 4%.
Overall, our results suggest that the use of municipality or census consolidated subdivision were the most optimal scales for studying environmental determinants of campylobacteriosis at a regional level. This study highlights the need for careful selection and analysis of geographical units when using ecological study designs.
Radical cystectomy is a safe and effective treatment in elderly patients with invasive bladder cancer. It is necessary to evaluate co-morbidity in this group because there is an increase in postoperative medical complications. There were no differences between the two groups in overall disease-free interval and overall time to progression.
Despite the five-fold increase in the total number of aortic aneurysm repairs (as expected), the number of ruptured aneurysms operated upon increased as well. There was just a trend for a reduction in the absolute numbers of ruptured aneurysms operated upon in the last 2 years. Mortality, on the other hand, decreased dramatically in all categories, with the overall 30-day mortality decreasing more than four-fold, from 40% to 9.3%, while the respective mortalities according to the category of intervention were 3.7% vs 21% for scheduled, 16% vs 35% for urgent and 29% vs 69% for ruptured aneurysms, with a P value of less than 0.01. However, there was no difference in the numbers of patients with ruptured aneurysm reaching the hospital (operated or not) between the two periods (median values of 11 and 10.5 annually). The presence of a Vascular Unit, although it achieves dramatically better results, is not associated with a reduction in the number of emergency proceduresaeat least in the intermediate termaedespite an expansion in the indications for surgery, increased awareness and prompt referrals (centralisation).
This is the first study on FPPS in PC specimens. The association of FPPS with established histopathological risk parameters and biochemical recurrence implicates a contribution of the mevalonate pathway to PC progression. Further functional analysis is required to explore the role of this pathway in PC and to investigate whether FPPS expression affects the response of PC cells to N-BPs.
The findings of the present study suggest that when young adults have established binge drinking as a common drinking pattern, impairment of inhibition in response to alcoholic stimuli is the only significant predictor of binge drinking, but not general impulsive behavior.
The new needle driver provides a unique kinematic architecture that enables insertion with a compact mechanism. Perhaps the most interesting conclusion of the study is that lesions of soft tissue organs may not be perfectly targeted with a needle without using special techniques, either manually or with a robotic device. The results of this study show that needle rotation may be an effective method of reducing targeting errors.
Antenatal CTG is not recommended in women with GDM managed by diet alone with no secondary pregnancy complication. Antenatal CTG is recommended in women with GDM who require combination therapy (diet and medication). The role of CTG in women managed by diet alone with a secondary pregnancy complication should be based upon the nature of the complication.
With regard to the small number of cases, our data suggest that ocular biometric parameters may be useful sonographic markers for trisomy 13, even if further evaluation is needed.
Areca nut use with and without tobacco additives was significantly associated with dependency syndrome. In comparison to exclusive areca nut users, the smokers were eight times more likely to develop dependence while areca nut users with tobacco additives were also significantly more likely to suffer from the dependence.
For asymptomatic small-sized lower calyceal stones, SWL and F-URS are established treatment modalities. However, with low auxiliary treatment rates, observation may be an option for the management of nonsymptomatic small-sized lower pole kidney stones.
With one-minute venous retention, 0.5 mg neostigmine (1 ml) could produce peripheral analgesia to some degree in reducing propofol injection pain. However, its analgesic effect was inferior to 1 ml of 2% lidocaine.
Results of organ preservation with radical RT or CCRT do not show promising outcomes in the locally advanced T3 carcinoma of postcricoid. Radical surgery with appropriate reconstruction and postoperative radiotherapy is probably better in terms of local control as well as overall survival. Proper preoperative counseling and postoperative rehabilitation of speech and stoma can improve the quality of life of T3 postcricoid carcinoma patients.
Iodixanol caused a modest but statistically significant improvement in venous attenuation and a decrease in arterial attenuation. The diagnostic importance of this small increase in venous attenuation is not clear.
Teenage pregnancy is a risk factor for LBW and PTD especially for parturient younger than 17.
Based on these results, it could be said that oxidative stress, and therefore the ADMA level, could have an effect on the etiopathogenesis of MHT.
In unilateral breast reconstruction using medial row perforator DIEP flaps, fat necrosis developed more frequently in zone III than in zone II, and this tendency was more prominent in high inset rate group. Not transferring excessive contralateral tissue including lateral zone III tissue might be helpful for reducing the risk of fat necrosis.
Nonorthogonal images reduce accuracy of PF and TT identification with both navigation and fluoroscopy. Navigation increased precision but decreased accuracy and cannot overcome inaccuracies induced by nonorthogonal images.
Dancers ages 16-18 years who enter full-time ballet training did not augment their ankle dorsiflexion to any appreciable degree. Some, but certainly not all, increased their hip active external rotation over 12 months without increasing their total lower limb turnout. Hip ER was more likely to improve in the first-year rather than second-year student in this elite full-time training school.
Non-catheter TIP repair is feasible and positive outcomes can be achieved with minimal complications and less patient discomfort.
Our results suggest that detection of C4d staining in acute "cell-mediated" rejection does not imply a worse renal prognosis.
The current PPE forms used by NCAA Division I universities may not effectively screen for the triad.
Increasing socioeconomic status at the location of cardiac arrest is positively associated with the likelihood of bystander CPR for OHCA in this region of England.
The increased risk of PTB among SGA and AGA NH-Black infants with CHDs is not explained by the overall disparities in risk of PTB between NH-Blacks and NH-Whites. Additional studies are needed to determine the specific subtypes of CHD for which these relationships are present and if these findings are seen among infants with other birth defects.
Different diets did not significantly influence the incidence of histologically proven pancreatic adenocarcinoma. However, administration of a diet rich in n-3 PUFA (FISH-OIL) resulted in a decrease of macroscopically visible tumours, thus indicating its beneficial effects in respect to attenuation of tumour growth.
The present findings suggest routine closure of a patent ductus arteriosus, for the sole purpose of eliminating the risk of infective endarteritis, is unnecessary.
Reactor grids are widely used and may exclude persons with infectious syphilis from health department evaluation, especially men. The impact of reactor grid use on syphilis control and surveillance in the United States should be evaluated.
The prosthesis approximated the behavior of the native meniscus. Improvement in both the gliding characteristics of the prosthetic material and the fixation of the prosthesis may improve the function.
Despite commonly used practices, usage of different types of pharyngeal packing did not affect incidence of PONV and throat pain, nor did usage of no packing.
The selected PROMs do not cover the prototypical spectrum of problems encountered in patients with low back pain as defined by the Brief ICF Core Set. The clinical assessment of patients' problems according to the Brief ICF Core Set does not correlate with the scores of matching items from the PROMs.
Our large-scale propensity score-matched analysis did not demonstrate a benefit for MBP in operation time, postoperative stay, or overall complications. The results suggest that MBP can be safely omitted before laparoscopic nephrectomy for T1-T3 tumors.
Results suggest that the administration of idebenone, vitamin B2, and vitamin C sped the recovery of vision in patients with LHON.
Emergency department-based insurance enrollment programs have the potential to improve access to health care for children. Policies aimed at expanding insurance enrollment among the uninsured population, including the Affordable Care Act, may consider the ED's potential as an effective enrollment site.
The comprehensive nature of the data, coupled with complete case-ascertainment and representative population-based controls suggests that SES in the UK is not a determinant of ALL in children. We believe the small effects reported for SES in some past studies may be artefactual.
Dual therapy in TM patients with chronic HCV infection is efficacious in patients with the best virological, genetic and clinical predictors. Patients with cirrhosis have an increased risk of worsening liver or heart disease.
Implicit self-esteem measures are not valid for individual or cross-cultural comparisons. We speculate that individuals may not form implicit associations with the self as an attitudinal object.
Flies experience reduced fitness when maintained on hosts with immunological or preening defenses. This suggests that if vectors are given a choice among hosts, they may choose hosts that are less defended, which could impact pathogen transmission in a system where vectors can choose among hosts.
The present meta-analysis suggested that there might be a significant association of GSTM1 null genotype with POAG risk in East Asians.
This study indicates that the quantity of NaHCO(3) needed to alkalize 10 mL of 0.75% ropivacaine at room temperature is 0.012 mEq. When the solution contains adrenaline 1:200,000 (mg.mL(-1)), up to 0.015 mEq of NaHCO(3) may be added. The alkalization of the 0.75% ropivacaine solution did not cause a reduction of sensory-motor onset, but did provide a significant increase in the duration of the epidural block with no significant differences between the solutions with and without adrenaline.
The relationships found may indicate that the growth of the SSS is proportional to the activity of each segment of the SSS that occurs along its path.
This SICU has high rates of both nares and sputum MRSA cultures. Our data suggest eradicating nares colonization may prevent pneumonia and might decrease SICU LOS.
Patients want to maintain the traditional model of hospital based follow-up in specialist urology cancer clinics. However, this approach is not economically sustainable. If this is to change we need to work with our patients to develop a service that meets their needs. For a new approach to follow-up to meet the needs of patients, they need to be confident that they have access to expert advice and support, and are assured of referral back to the urology team if required. Nurses are ideally placed to play a key role in the development of such a service.
Although no difference in the prevalence of metabolic syndrome in naturally menopausal women and in surgically menopausal women was found, the components of metabolic syndrome were more prevalent among those with surgical menopause.
Initially only 5% of consent forms completely met GMC guidelines. This demonstrates an alarmingly poor adherence to such guidance that plays a vital role in patient safety, patient ethics autonomy, not to mention potential medico-legal and clinical governance implications for surgical practice. Our intervention has improved the quality of consenting within our hospital according to these guidelines. With these interventions set to continue and further develop, we expect that the quality of the consenting process will continue to provide patients with all that it is designed to.
In this study of low-volume mass gatherings, a similar number of patients sought medical treatment at small (<2,000 patrons) and large (>2,000 patrons) events. This demonstrates that for low-volume mass gatherings, planning based solely on anticipated event size may be flawed, and could lead to inappropriate levels of first-aid coverage. This study also highlights the importance of considering other factors, such as event type and patient characteristics, when determining appropriate first-aid resourcing for low-volume events. Additionally, identification of factors predictive of injury presentations at mass gatherings has the potential to significantly enhance the ability of event coordinators to plan effective prevention strategies and response capability for these events.
Measurement of ET is not recommended as a single clinical test for intrauterine pregnancy prediction in women with pregnancy of unknown location.
This is the first study to demonstrate the utility of pre-operative labs in predicting perioperative cardiac and septic adverse events in orthopaedic trauma and hip fracture patients. Particular attention should be paid to haematologic/coagulation labs (platelets, PTT) and bilirubin values.
Elbow extension as a diagnostic test in a primary care setting can predict severe elbow injuries and can be safely used in practices with no radiology facilities.
The strong correlation between standard WC and BMI does not allow assessment of their relative contributions to health in the same model without a risk of making erroneous estimations. By contrast with BMI, fat distribution (residual WC) does not add valuable information to a model that already contains overall adiposity (BMI) in Inuit and Cree.
This relatively low sensitivity of total cholesterol as a screening tool should be the impetus for rethinking the screening guidelines. Specifically, the cost-benefit ratio of routine screening for lipoproteins, particularly HDL cholesterol, needs to be carefully considered.
A simple physical examination technique for assessing lumbar spine segmental rigidity was used in this preliminary study to select patients and levels for combined facet injection and stretching exercise, with resultant improvements in mobility and self-reported pain/disability that may extend beyond the pharmacologic duration of the corticosteroid. The efficacy of either the facet injection or stretching components alone in achieving objective mobility improvements cannot be determined from the present study, but warrants future investigation.
While supplementary prenatal care had no impact on costs, some benefits occurred for those at greatest risk of not accessing services. However, it would be premature to draw widespread recommendations for policy from the results of a single study. Further investment in prenatal care should continue to be accompanied by rigorous evaluation of its costs and the value that women place on the service provided.
Although clear ethnic differences in body size, proportions and composition were evident in this population of young children aged 5 to 11 years, an ethnic-specific BIA calibration equation was not required.
The MUST score, but not the BNR, is able to predict increased mortality in older hospitalised patients.
Metachronous bilateral breast cancers, compared to synchronous bilateral breast cancers, are characterized by more aggressive phenotype, expressed by lower expression of estrogen receptor and stronger expression of cytokeratin 5/6 and vimentin; this does not, however, translate into differences in the distribution of intrinsic tumor phenotypes.
LDA for preeclampsia prevention was not more effective when initiated<16 weeks or used in non-obese women at risk for preeclampsia. No particular subgroup of women was more or less likely to benefit from LDA therapy.
Breast tumours express high levels of CD46 that correlates with tumour grade and recurrence. It is therefore likely that loss of CD55 and CD59 could be compensated by expression of CD46. However, loss of CD55 and CD59, even for tumours that still express CD46, is still associated with a poor prognosis. This may suggest that CD46 alone can protect from complement lysis but that loss of CD55 and CD59 are associated with other roles in immune regulation.
Restructuring involving exclusively business expansion is not a threat to psychosocial job characteristics (except for quantitative demands) or to employees' well-being. Therefore, the type of restructuring should be taken into account when the restructuring--psychological health relationship is discussed.
In health care supply planning, such systematic associations should be taken into account. We recommend to analyse regularly interregional differences in supply and outcome of medical performances with the best available data.
The previous APM prescription written by the physician was unassociated with major medical comorbidities in the current patient, suggesting that the IV estimates were not biased by case-mix differences between physicians. However, we did find that the IV was associated with the use of long-acting benzodiazepines. This association disappeared when the study was restricted to the patients treated by primary care physicians. Our study illustrates how internal validation approaches may be used to improve the design of quasi-experimental studies.
A positive association was found between preretirement physically arduous working conditions and limitations in daily activities after retirement. Findings offer a new insight for global evaluation of physical exposures during working life.
It is unlikely that OC symptoms and disorders fall on any single phenomenological dimension; instead, multiple different constructs may be required to map this nosological space. Although there is evidence for the validity of some of the relevant dimensions, additional work is required to delineate more fully the endophenotypes that underlie OC symptoms and disorders.
The majority of general practitioners would not use topical antibiotics in the presence of a perforated tympanic membrane. Most doctors would consider using a non-ototoxic topical antibiotic as first line treatment should one be made available.
We demonstrated that 38% of women with GH had concurrent SDB. We did not find an improvement in blood pressure or inflammatory markers with a single night of either the auto-CPAP or MAD + nasal strip interventions. However important lessons from this study may guide future investigations in this area.
Higher level of serum cystatin C is related to decreased insulin sensitivity in patients with type 1 diabetes. This relationship seems to have an important clinical implication.
A significant proportion (33.6%) of well differentiated tumours in a hysterectomy were found to have Stage Ic disease or more at the time of presentation, and thus full surgical staging including a lymphadenectomy should have been carried out in these cases. Cases with a preoperative biopsy showing atypical hyperplasia or well differentiated adenocarcinoma should have a preoperative MRI scan or preferably an intraoperative frozen section examination to identify those cases with adverse pathological features which need to be fully staged with pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomy.
Anthracycline-induced subacute cardiotoxicity can be significantly diminished by the concomitant use of dexrazoxane. For the final conclusions longer follow-up is necessary.
Cisplatin and etoposide in these doses with conventionally fractionated TRT is a well-tolerated, effective treatment schedule in the definitive treatment of unresectable or inoperable NSCLC.
A 5-year mortality review would seem more appropriate to visualise true trends and should be performed to remove anomalous results.
GPMPs are used in a minority of patients with chronic diseases. Use is highest in people with diabetes.
Adenotonsillectomy performed in children leads to alterations that may reflect a compensatory response of the developing immune system after the removal of the lymphoid tissue in the setting of chronic antigenic stimulation. However, these changes do not cause significant immune deficiency.
The increased prevalence of health problems among most groups with various psychosocial conditions during the 1990s, together with reduced relative differences in poor health, might make it more difficult for employers and policy-makers to direct health policies towards specific groups of employees, as the "healthy'' job seems to have disappeared. Another important inference of the results is that psychosocial working conditions seem to be causally related to health.
All patients treated with (90)Y hepatic radioembolization to a maximum administered activity of 5.14 GBq and maximum dose rate of 10 uSv/h were releasable without contact restrictions according to the NRC contact scenario. Patients who receive more than 3 GBq during infusion may require dose rate measurement if more restrictive contact scenarios are considered.
Free choice, assisted by PDAs, leads to a 50/50 distribution of PD and HD choice and an increase in TX choice. The use of PDAs, even with an unplanned start, achieved a high level of concordance between the chosen and definitive modality.
Postoperative orthopantomographs depict factors which increase the risk of osteosynthesis failure.
ASA class is associated with increased risk of adverse events at endoscopy, particularly for EGD and colonoscopy. It is useful in endoscopic risk stratification and an important quality indicator for endoscopy.
The incidence of brain metastases was relatively low (13%). More studies are necessary, before routinely offering PCI to patients with EPSCC. Best survival outcomes in LS were achieved with multimodality treatment including CT and RT. Prognosis was poor in patients with ES.
Routine IVP at first diagnosis of bladder cancer is unnecessary.
This study is the first comparative overview of the circadian clock mechanism in a basal land plant, the moss P. patens. Our results indicate that the moss clock mechanism may represent an ancestral state in contrast to the more complex and partly duplicated structure of subsequent land plants. These findings may provide insights into the understanding of the evolution of circadian network topology.
Parents in food insecure households recognize that trade-offs between food and other basic necessities are associated with their personal stress and poor mental health that, in turn, affects their children's health and development. Partnerships between healthcare providers, policymakers, and parents are essential to successfully address and prevent the poor child health outcomes of toxic stress associated with food insecurity and poverty.
MMVF insulation products do still cause skin discomfort. Updated knowledge about people's experiences of work with such products should influence legislation.
Sigmoidoscopy was shown to be a practical procedure, causing no significant morbidity in patients with ovarian carcinoma. In evaluating a pelvic mass it can exclude primary colorectal pathology and impending obstruction. Flexible sigmoidoscopy correctly identified the majority of cases which required colorectal surgery and allowed an optimal resection to take place as a planned procedure.
The issue of 'not having enough food' may be more prevalent in New Zealand than US or Australia. Among New Zealand European&Others the higher prevalence of insufficient food due to lack of money among females from NZDep96 quartiles III and IV suggests that males may be protected from this by their female partners. Food security needs to be improved among young adults, women, Maori and Pacific people in order to prevent longer term nutritional health consequences.
Consistently, fewer bacterial colonies were found on the goggled contact lens, thus suggesting goggles offer some protection against bacterial colonization of contact lenses while swimming. These data would support the recommendation encouraging lens wearers to use goggles while swimming.
The study supports the clinical utility of an electrodiagnostic protocol for assessment of men with suspected peripheral sacral lesions that includes both quantitative anal sphincter EMG and sacral reflex studies.
Using the largest international familial schizophrenia cohort to date, we showed that a substantial portion of the phenotypic correlation between schizophrenia and cognition is caused by shared genetic effects. However, because the phenotypic and genetic correlations are far from unity, the genetics of schizophrenia are clearly not merely the genetics of cognition.
This preliminary study indicates that though the palm print ridge density is a sexually dimorphic variable, its utility for estimation of sex in forensic identification may be limited owing to significant overlapping of values.
A substantial proportion of patients die with gastrointestinal cancer on general surgical wards without operative or endoscopic intervention and may receive better end of life care in an acute palliative care setting.
Adjuvant IP chemotherapy was not predictive of survival after neoadjuvant chemotherapy in our small exploratory study. The role of IP chemotherapy in this setting needs to be further studied in a larger prospective patient cohort.
Based on measured pharmacokinetic values, additional doses of cefazolin should be administered when the operation exceeds 3 hours and blood loss is greater than 1500 mL. Doses of gentamicin greater than 1.8 mg/kg should be administered more than 30 minutes prior to the surgical incision.
Preoperative recognition of MCRCC is possible using strict computerized tomography and/or magnetic resonance imaging criteria. The current study confirms the low malignant potential of MCRCC. Nephron sparing surgery should be proposed when MCRCC is suspected.
In determining antiosteoporotic treatment for RA patients, using only the GIOP recommendations is insufficient. Application of the NOF guidelines in patients not eligible for or classified into the low-risk group per the GIOP recommendations and screening for VFs may be helpful in deciding on antiosteoporotic treatment in RA patients.
The results of this investigation strongly support an in utero cause of plagiocephaly and demonstrate that intrauterine positioning may play a prominent role in determining both the occurrence and severity of deformational plagiocephaly in twins. These findings confirm that the lower in utero infant is at increased risk for the development of plagiocephaly, likely resulting from the more restrictive intrauterine environment encountered during the later part of the pregnancy.
Despite no difference in survival, the improvement from preoperative CRT with respect to margin involvement makes this treatment a reasonable option for bulky, locally advanced resectable adenocarcinoma of the oesophagus.
In distal hypospadias, subjective evaluation of overall penile appearance can be as reliable as an evaluation made using a systematic scoring system. There seems to be excellent concordance among the subjective evaluations of different observers.
Patients undergoing OFFx repair did not have improved VA. The VA of nonsurgical patients was statistically significantly improved by 1 week after injury (P = 0.02).
These data suggest that automatic pump suspension using the PID algorithm may be an effective means to prevent hypoglycemia in youth with T1D.
The distal ureter may be left intact for ureterocystoplasty to protect ureteral blood supply. This modified technique is sound from a physiological standpoint, technically easier and associated with good results.
Almost all cystic fibrosis patients develop hyperglycaemia after lung transplantation, but patients with prior diabetes have more complication-related admissions to hospital and a higher mortality rate.
The belief that screening for Type 2 diabetes is worthwhile is based not on evidence for the effectiveness of screening, but rather on a complex interaction of factors including perceptions of patient desires and an interplay of previous experience and evidence from other sources. Increased resources would be most likely to promote screening in primary care.
Abnormal ETCO2 findings were observed with many acute respiratory events. A majority of patients with acute respiratory events had ETCO2 abnormalities that occurred before oxygen desaturation or observed hypoventilation.
The results indicate that thawed embryos may express oxidative processes in the cryopreservation medium, and higher oxidative levels are associated with lower implantation rates. These findings may aid in the improved selection of frozen-thawed embryos for IVF.
Compared with patients treated with an accepted LDL goal (80 to 100 mg/dl), there was no adverse effect on safety with lower achieved LDL levels, and apparent improved clinical efficacy. These data identify no intrinsic safety concern of achieving low LDL and, therefore, a strategy of intensive treatment need not be altered in patients achieving very low LDL levels.
For bulk fill materials the ISO 4049 method overestimated depth of cure compared to depth of cure determined by Vickers hardness profiles.
A concept of frailty including psychological and cognitive markers is associated with both multiple falls and fractures. However, frailty is not superior to falls history for the selection of old persons at increased risk of recurrent falls.
The hypothesis was not supported as the presence of preoperative urodynamic bladder dysfunction was not predictive of the outcome of PPI surgery in this study.
Irrespective of trade association membership or vendor popularity, online vendors of e-liquids are not taking the proper precautions in preventing sales to minors. The FDA's upcoming deeming rules on e-cigarette products should include explicit requirements for offline and online e-liquid vendors, particularly the use of effective age verification, warning labels, and child-resistant packaging.
Acute renal failure that developed in the course of galactosamine-induced ALF was of a functional nature, with the kidneys retaining the ability to concentrate urine and retain sodium, and there were no renal changes in the histopathological examination. It seems that the experimental model of ALF induced by galactosamine can be viewed as a model of hepatorenal syndrome that occurs in the course of acute damage and liver failure.
In patients with chronic heart failure, resynchronization therapy leads to reduced symptoms, reduction in dyspnea and to improvements in cardiac performance due to increase in the systolic function of the left ventricle and hemodynamic changes.
Plantar pressure assessment of risk for overuse lower limb injury can be predictive of sustaining an overuse injury in a controlled training environment.
The N95 filtering face piece respirators may not provide the expected protection level against small virions. Some surgical masks may let a significant fraction of airborne viruses penetrate through their filters, providing very low protection against aerosolized infectious agents in the size range of 10 to 80 nm. It should be noted that the surgical masks are primarily designed to protect the environment from the wearer, whereas the respirators are supposed to protect the wearer from the environment.
The associations between spirituality/religiosity, positive appraisals. and internal adaptive coping strategies indicate that the utilization of spirituality/religiosity goes far beyond fatalistic acceptance, but can be regarded as an active coping process. The findings support the need for further research concerning the contributions of spiritual coping in adjustment to chronic pain.
Overall, our study did not reveal increased creativity in JME. The current findings provide insights into creative abilities in two different epilepsy syndromes. Knowledge on specific neuropsychological strengths or deficits in patients with epilepsy may be useful for treatment or counseling.
These results suggested that UVC may be useful in preventing combat-related wound infections.
Subtotal thyroidectomy seems to be an effective treatment of diffuse toxic goitre as a stable euthyroid state can be achieved in nearly half the patients after a prolonged follow up.
BIA-derived BF was not superior to BMI to predict cardiovascular risk factors in overweight or obese children and adolescents.
Withdrawal of SSRI treatment was successful in the majority of cases. The MADRS may be a valuable addition to clinical evaluation when deciding whether to end or continue SSRI treatment.
Health promotion and secondary prevention for older persons in the primary healthcare clinics need strengthening. Training and facilitation of health workers in age-related age-specific prevention activities are recommended. The provision of appropriate resources for prevention activities among older persons in primary healthcare settings should be addressed.
Recurrent episodes of diverticulitis do not lead to more complications and more conservative treatment failure. Moreover, surgery at admission was less frequent among patients who presented with a recurrence.
The information in the Super Profiles does not illuminate the way that social processes affect health, and the variation in mean birthweight between areas explained by social processes as measured by Super Profiles is small.
There are serious gaps in hospital preparedness for CBRN incidents in Belgium. Lack of financial resources is a major obstacle in achieving sufficient preparedness.
It has not been proved yet that colorectal cancers increase the incidence of bilateral inguinal hernias. The incidence of benign pathologies in our series was similar to that of same age population without hernia. As a conclusion of this study we believe that rectosigmoidoscopy is not necessary for synchronous bilateral hernias unless the patient has any complaints or risk factors. Colorectal screening tools are performed when the clinical findings or the story of the patient support colorectal cancers) (Tab. 1, Ref. 25).
Disease-specific measures are the most responsive in THA patients. However, the SF-36, HUI2, and HUI3 had summary scores and domain/attributes scores that were also responsive and provided additional information. Among the generic measures, HUI3 was the most responsive.
: The findings provide convergent indirect evidence that crying, especially in the first 4 months of age, is an important stimulus for SBS.
Clinically relevant concentrations of tinzaparin inhibit the interaction between CXCL12 and CXCR4 and may be useful to prevent chemokine-driven breast cancer metastasis.
In patients with CAP, the presence of bilateral pleural effusions is an independent predictor of short-term mortality. This finding, which is available at presentation, can help guide physicians' assessment of prognosis in CAP.
More than half of our patients recovered completely from ND due to AADA after surgery. Severity of clinical symptoms had a predictive value. Patients suffering from AADA and presenting with ND before surgery should not be excluded from emergency surgery.
Direct AT(2) receptor stimulation may be a novel therapeutic approach to improve post-MI systolic and diastolic function by antiapoptotic and antiinflammatory mechanisms.
Our results suggest that strategies should be activated to overcome or limit the side-effects of analgesia in labor through prospective and multidisciplinary studies.
Substantive levels of occupational dissatisfaction and stress exist among pharmacists currently in community practice. These negative attributes are associated with a damaging promotion of community practice-a marker of a negative trajectory in sustaining this practice environment. The results of this study have implications for the health care industry, commercial pharmacy vendors, independent pharmacies, the profession, and academic training institutions as they prepare the pharmacy workforce of the future for potentially dissatisfying and stressful work environments.
Routine drain insertion does not prevent or reduce postoperative morbidities after LC for AIGB and can even cause prolonged postoperative pain. This prospective study suggests that routine drain use in LC for AIGB should be reconsidered.
FDG PET-CT can detect active tumor thrombosis and is helpful in differentiating it from benign thrombus.
The findings are consistent with the action of a common causal mechanism underlying changes in speed, grip, and memory. A number of methodological caveats arise from our analysis. Cross-sectional and longitudinal data sets yield different interpretations about the basic component associates of cognitive performance.
Long-term follow-up post endovascular treatment for chronic mesenteric ischemia demonstrated a considerable overall secondary patency rate of 94%. However, the long-term secondary patency rate was higher in patients post initial stenting compared to PTA alone.
Higher individual-level social capital may protect against HD among Chinese RUMWs. Interventions to build individual social capital among RUMWs in China may help reduce HD among this population.
Analysing two samples, one treated one not, remains the best method to obtain accurate δ(13) C isotope values of muscle tissue. By using this approach every study will obtain two datasets, eventually providing a suitable collective dataset for determining how isotopic signatures are affected by delipidation and potentially producing better mathematical correction models in future.
S-100beta levels in urine obtained on admission to the hospital are not a good indicator for the extent of brain damage. However, urine S-100beta levels obtained at later time points might be a useful indicator for the development of secondary brain injury.
Distal and lateral transfer of the greater trochanter can eliminate insufficiency of the hip abductors and improve joint function in adult patients with coxa brevis and we believe should be considered for patients without severe osteoarthritis of the hip.
Pelvic floor injury is present in the majority of incontinent patients who were eligible for sacral neuromodulation. This type of injury seems to have no detrimental effect on the treatment outcome.
There is a need to establish aged subgroups of elderly patients with instability, adapting therapeutic strategies.
Our finding that SMW respond more negatively to certain cancer treatments compared to heterosexual women suggests an opportunity to intervene with education and support for SMW breast cancer survivors for whom these life-saving treatments are necessary.
The epsilon4 genotype is not a significant predictor of hospital costs, and so would not be a good risk adjustor for purposes such as setting reimbursement rates for Medicare risk plans.
Clinical presentation is fundamental in diagnostic counseling but should be supplemented with further laboratory tests to detect inflammation and sonograms. The latter, along with CRP and D-dimer assays, may represent useful parameters to consider when planning patient management because they appear indicative of the need for surgical treatment.
Patients cytoreduced to ≤ 1 cm but visible residual disease who required UAS did not have a worse OS than those who did not require UAS. OS was similar if residual disease involved the SB or not. For ovarian cancer patients with disease not amenable to complete gross resection, extensive surgery should still be considered to achieve ≤ 1 cm but visible residual disease status, including cases where the residual disease involves the SB.
In transtibial ACL reconstruction, the use of a fixed or adjustable-loop length device products, on the femoral side, led to similar clinical and radiological results.
There is no conclusive evidence that catechol-O-methyl transferase 472G/A is a marker associated with alcoholism. More evidence is needed to draw safe conclusions regarding this association.
In our study, the significantly reduced blood pressure in the clinical trial did not persist when followed up in clinical practice. At follow-up, one third of the patients had blood pressure values similar to those before active treatment. The reason for this is unclear, but inconsistent compliance may play a part in the lack of durability of the improvements. Our results indicate that effects seen in short-term clinical trials may not translate to long-term benefits in clinical practice.
We report a significantly lower rate of extrathymic malignancies in patients with MG than in controls, and we hypothesize that MG treatment or the immunological mechanisms involved in MG may protect patients with MG from developing an extrathymic malignancy.
We did not find evidence of a systematic higher valuation of physician work in procedure/test codes than in E/M codes in the CMS RVU system.
Treatment strategies in Hodgkin's disease have an impact on different risk factors. In the risk-adapted treatment strategy of the HD-90 study, tumor burden indicated as bulky disease or as number of involved lymph nodes loses its importance, whereas NS2 histology and B-symptoms have a major impact on treatment outcome. Bulky disease at diagnosis might require higher radiation doses only in case of insufficient remission.
Changes in body composition over 3 years were small and comparable in COPD patients and control subjects. Nevertheless, muscle mass decline in underweight and fat mass increase in overweight/obese patients is associated with worsening health status. Overweight is associated with decreased mortality, but muscle mass and fat mass decline are detrimental for mortality.
1) NO may play an important role in the control of human esophageal motility, being involved in the mechanisms responsible for the timing of propulsive contractions in the body after swallowing; 2) GTN may to be of benefit in the treatment of diffuse esophageal spasm in symptomatic patients; and 3) patients with diffuse esophageal spasm may have a malfunction in endogenous NO synthesis and/or degradation.
Our results demonstrate a trend for increased survival of first born premature infants when compared with offsprings of subsequent deliveries, and an association between advanced parity and the development of severe intraventricular hemorrhage. Confirmation of these data by other studies is required before resultant implications are considered.
Our findings suggest the presence of gender bias in the medical management of heart failure, and identify an interesting interaction between caregiver specialty and gender bias.
The results suggest that where two summary scores of health status are adequate than the SF-12 may be the instrument of choice.
Re-replacement of an infected prosthetic graft after a thoracic aortic operation still carries a significant risk for mortality. VAC therapy may provide an acceptable option for such a subgroup of patients with this serious condition.
Patient satisfaction seems only marginally associated with personality, at least at the level of the broad Big Five dimensions.
We imaged 6 regional migration channels originating from 6 acupoints on 6 yin meridians of hand and foot by injecting a minimal amount of tracer into acupoints directly in humans. The responses of the subcutaneous specific channels to acupuncture needling are different from those of lymphatic or blood vessels and coincide partially with the characteristics of acupuncture therapeutics, suggesting the existence of meridian-like channels in humans. These findings may contribute to further research on the specific interstitial fluid drainage.
This meta-analysis indicates that APOE ε4 does not have a detrimental effect on cognitive performance following TBI. We propose that the relationship between APOE and cognitive function following TBI is complex, and a more-nuanced exploration of APOE genotypes is needed. (PsycINFO Database Record
We conclude that when diagnosed by strictly defined criteria, IP as benign urothelial neoplasm was with extremely low incidence of recurrence and good prognosis. It does not seem to be a risk factor for TCC, especially if located in the bladder. Therefore, a good transurethral resection is adequate therapy and follow-up protocol as rigorous as those for TCC may not be necessary.
In a Medicaid population, implementation of an intensive preoperative SMPP resulted in a significant improvement in the short-term weight loss after Lap-Band placement.
: The reduction in the modulated tube current achieved by AEC should not be used to estimate the reduction in the absorbed dose to exposed radiosensitive organs. Moreover, the reduction in the modulated tube current may only be considered as a rough approximation of the corresponding effective dose reduction.
Asthma was independently associated with a modest but statistically significant increased hazard of CHD among women. Further studies are warranted to confirm or refute these preliminary epidemiological findings.
The ability to modify negative emotions may be the common pathway by which many emotion-regulation skills exert their influence on mental health; however, the skill of accepting/tolerating negative emotions may be beneficial to mental health regardless of whether or not it facilitates modification of emotions.
Our experience indicates that LSG is a safe procedure with satisfactory three-year late weight loss in patients with preoperative BMI<50 kg/m2. Promising results, in terms of improvements of comorbidities, were also observed. These results make LSG one of the most attractive first stage surgical procedure for morbid obesity.
The association of Chiari I malformation with epilepsy, speech delay, and mental retardation may not be a mere incidental finding but may be a marker for a different pathogenetic background.
On the whole, residency provided excellent preparation for clinical practice based on my experience. Areas of potential improvement included endoscopy, pediatric surgery and "other," which comprised mostly hand surgery.
The pulmonary autograft procedure provides optimal hemodynamics and echocardiographic performance, and low valve-related complication rates; thus, the OPC for tissue and mechanical heart valve prostheses can be fulfilled by this technically demanding operation. These results confirm that the autograft is an ideal aortic valve replacement device.
Despite the progressive increase in international travel and the initial increase in VFR travelers, the percentage of this group has remained stable in recent years. However, the perception of a low risk among the immigrant population suggests the need to encourage an adequate pre-travel consultation within this group.
Our findings strongly support changing the Pap screening policy to the use of HPV DNA as a primary test with Pap test triage for both vaccinated and unvaccinated women.
The idea of completely standardised handover training is not in line with the identified differences in preferences and recommendations between different handover stakeholders. Mass customisation of training, in which generic training is adapted to local or individual needs, presents a promising solution to address general and specific needs, while containing the financial and time costs of designing and delivering handover training.
The presence of the activating BRAF(V) (600E) mutation in a significant percentage of papillary thyroid microcarcinoma indicates that further analyses are required to verify its usefulness as a predictor of clinical outcome in PTC. In this study, there was no correlation between BRAF-positive primary focus of papillary microcarcinoma and more aggressive or recurrent disease.
National reporting of opioid-replacement therapy triages would help gain a better understanding of the number of people in need of treatment. If opioid-replacement therapy providers monitored consumer triages, they could roster more effectively, have gender-specific clinicians available, acknowledge and inform consumers of wait time on triage and allow re-orientation of services to lower wait time.
Perceived differences between IMG and USMG psychiatry residents appear unrelated to personality.
Colonoscopy identifies a not insignificant number of ovarian cancer patients requiring colorectal surgery. An increased prevalence of adenomas was not observed in this population.
Our results show that almost half of our colleagues would have carried out tube thoracostomy when no pneumothorax was actually present. In a situation where a pneumothorax is a clinical possibility we would recommend either temporarily removing the oxygen mask if clinically stable, or fixing the reservoir bag outwith the field of the CXR by means of adhesive tape to avoid any misinterpretation of this 'mask sign'.
In general, parents tend to estimate the dental fear of their children slightly higher than their children.
Victorian GPN involved in the Australian Primary Care Collaborative appear more 'ready' than GPN without this experience to undertake clinical data management for reporting purposes on the national performance indicators under the NQPS.
The majority of patients with T2 GBCA in the United States are not managed according to current national recommendations.
The latest application of PNL, totally tubeless PNL, is also a safe and effective procedure in very small children if they are selected properly and if the surgeon has sufficient experience with the procedure. More studies with a higher number of participants are needed, however, to confirm that totally tubeless PNL increases the comfort of pediatric patients, decreases their hospitalization period, and is more economical.
Rat colon is permeable to inulin. The higher net colonic permeability may be caused by differences in mucosal surface, permselectivity, solvent drag effect, and differences in net water fluxes of the colon and small intestine.
This prospective patient cohort study shows that single-balloon colonoscopy is a safe and effective procedure to achieve a complete endoscopic examination in patients with a previous failed standard colonoscopy. A significant diagnostic and therapeutic gain in the right colon justifies additional procedure time.
LA is safe and feasible for both malign and benign adrenal lesions. Good preoperative assessment, surgical skills, team work and adherence to anatomical and surgical principles are the key to success for large adrenal masses.
An endangering by noise as given by the German occupational disease decree (more than 85 db(A)) cannot usually be expected for the dentist, the dental assistant and the dental technician.
Levels fused, a surgeon-independent variable, had the most consistently strong correlations with standard short-term quality indicators. With physician grading by payers largely dependent on easily measured outcomes from medical records, hospital and billing records, physicians need to be aware of the surgeon-dependent and surgeon-independent variables that may affect their outcomes and cost-effectiveness profile.
These findings tend to support the suggestion that a patient suspected to suffer from SS in a community setting may be first tested for the presence of anti-Ro/La antibodies to confirm the diagnosis. Only those with a negative result for the presence of anti-Ro/La antibodies need to be referred for salivary gland biopsy.
Because the biological behavior of biopsy Gleason score 3 + 4 or 4 + 3 of Gleason score 7 cancer differs regardless of the number of cores involved, future nomograms predicting pathological stage would benefit from examining 3 + 4 and 4 + 3 disease separately.
DAG administration improves glycemic control in obese subjects with type 2 diabetes through the suppression of AG levels. DAG is a good candidate for the development of compounds in the treatment of metabolic disorders or other conditions with a disturbed AG:DAG ratio, such as type 2 diabetes mellitus or Prader-Willi syndrome.
Fast diagnosis tests used for M. tuberculosis identification were useful to begin an antituberculous treatment in a high suspicion of meningeal affectation by this German patient. The early treatment will decrease complications and consequences by this disease. A decrease in the incidence looks to be in spite of the VIH infection increase nowadays.
Our data indicate that discussions about DNR orders are occurring earlier in relation to terminal events. However, we could not detect significant changes in the other outcome measures we studied. Major opportunities remain for further enhancements in the realm of advance planning for end-of-life care. Educational opportunities should be offered to physicians regarding communicating with patients about disease progression and end-of-life decision-making.
High-CORE melancholia cases appear to have more in common with psychotic depression than do low-CORE cases. Designation of observable PMD as an essential criterion in making a diagnosis of melancholia could increase the utility of the DSM classification in relation to treatment planning.
Laboratory CR measures do not correlate with EMA-assessed craving or smoking in response to cues, suggesting that CR measures are not accurate predictors of how smokers react to relevant stimuli in the real world.
Controlling pregnancy weight gain may reduce offspring birth weight in individual women with GDM, while the association between high birth weight and elevated prepregnancy BMI may represent a predisposition to both characteristics.
Our results support that PI max and PE max are sensitive measurements of respiratory dysfunction in bulbar patients. Probably, this finding cannot be solely explained by the oro-facial weakness of bulbar-patients. We speculate that respiratory accessory muscles weakness can contribute for this observation.
The findings of this study suggest that the grade and type of spondylolisthesis do influence global motion parameters. This information may be useful in the clinical assessment of this patient group.
It is impossible to disentangle the individual contributions of the compatibility agreement, improved crashworthiness of cars, and other factors in reducing car crash partner fatality rates. However, the generally larger reductions in car crash partner death rates for SUVs and pickups indicate the likely benefits of the agreement. Overall, this study finds that the system of regulatory testing, voluntary industry initiatives, and consumer information testing has led to a passenger vehicle fleet that is much more compatible in crashes.
Selecting adjuvant liposomal chemotherapies (paclitaxel, doxorubicin) to target cellular apoptosis and HSP production effectively increases RF ablation-induced tumor coagulation and end-point survival, and combined multidrug approach results in even better outcomes.
The use of fibrin glue does not prevent seroma formation and does not reduce seroma magnitude and duration. The costs of the product involved do not justify its routine use in patients undergoing axillary dissection.
This trial shows a reverse relation between cardiovascular risk in dialysis patients over 70 and CRP level. This may be a useful element in evaluating older patients before long-term dialysis.
Self-criticism is not unique to major depression, and this personality dimension may be implicated in other forms of psychopathology [Blatt, 1991. A cognitive morphology of psychopathology. J. Nerv. Ment. Dis. 179, 449-458]. Some cognitive features believed to play an important role in depression may also be salient in persons with social phobia.
Postoperative protamine infusion was able to almost totally abolish heparin rebound. In the context of this study, protamine infusion resulted in reduced postoperative bleeding but the magnitude was insufficient to alter transfusion requirements.
Our findings question the applicability of cost-effectiveness analyses that assume constant returns to scale.
Treated GCA is not associated with increased lymphoma risks, which suggests that even at considerable cumulative doses, steroids may not appreciably increase lymphoma risk.
A positive sedimentation sign was associated with a small but significantly greater surgical treatment effect for Oswestry Disability Index in patients with symptomatic LSS, after adjusting for other demographic and imaging features. These findings suggest that positive sedimentation sign may potentially be a useful adjunct to help guide an informed treatment choice regarding surgery for LSS.
Using the conventional QFT conversion definition, we found a higher than expected rate of conversion. Recent occupational exposures were not associated with QFT conversions, and no TST conversions occurred in this cohort, suggesting the 'conversions' may not reflect new TB infection.
In both groups, the difference between primary and secondary torsional deviation was not statistically significant.
When they are available to interviewers, markers of academic achievement such as United States Medical Licensing Examination scores may bias the interview evaluation. The interview process when conducted in this manner may simply be a validation process for candidates already judged on the basis of the application alone. Knowledge of United States Medical Licensing Examination scores by the interviewers may therefore negate the interview as an independent means of evaluating candidates.
Extended lymphadenectomy patients (≥20 LNs) had worse OS when compared with those with more limited (<20 LNs) resection. An LNR of at least 0.37 is an independent predictor of DFS.
Pulmonary metastasectomy may have a curative role in the treatment of metastatic TCC in appropriately selected patients, especially those with a small solitary pulmonary metastasis.
Among Chinese nonagenarians and centenarians, we found there were significant associations between inadequate intake of legume and animal oil and the prevalence of MCI. No significant correlation between other food items and the prevalence of MCI were demonstrated in this study.
Results suggested that it is possible to draw an ideal line on the I-gel with sizes 1.5 and 2 only.
This study demonstrates that modern implant technology does not influence the cost-effectiveness of TKA using the SF-6D and QALY methodology. This type of analysis however assesses health status, and is not sensitive to joint specific function. Evolutionary design changes in implant technology are thus unlikely to influence QALY analysis following joint replacement, which has important implications for implant procurement.
Nurses must recognize characteristics and factors related to fatigue in patients and develop strategies to help patients cope with their restricted ability in daily life.
Patients with superficial and perforator vein incompetence and a normal deep venous system experienced significant improvement in APG-measured hemodynamic parameters and clinical symptom score after superficial ablative surgery alone. This suggests that ligation of the perforator veins can be reserved for patients with persistent incompetent perforator vessels, with abnormal hemodynamic parameters or continued symptoms after superficial ablative surgery.
Our findings demonstrate both the need for transparency and its limitations. The medical profession and the government should use the PPSA data to verify disclosures, but they must also implement stronger conflict of interest policies to help ensure that physicians' industry ties, however transparent, do not compromise scientific integrity or patient care.
Only half of the patients who qualify to receive preoperative beta-blockers by current recommendations actually receive them before noncardiac surgery, and the majority of these patients have preadmission and preinduction HR less than 60 bpm. Targeting beta-blocker therapy treatment to an HR less than 60 bpm may not be readily achievable in many patients.
This study identified 2 variables associated with acute stroke that should be considered in the evaluation of ED patients with vertigo. Head CT was inadequate for diagnosing acute stroke in this patient population.
The rate of incorrect diagnoses by on-call surgical juniors is high, and educational feedback to these doctors is important. The PTWR represents a strong educational opportunity that is missed if admitting junior doctors are not present. These results should be taken into account for any specialty that uses junior doctors to admit patients who are then reviewed by a consultant on a PTWR.
We found no advantages of the dorsal percutaneous approach. In addition to a favourable functional outcome, the limited dorsal approach permits visualization of the screw insertion point and of the fracture line course, and prevents insufficient screw sinking underneath the bone cartilage and malunion.
The low rate of misrepresentation of publications, especially among graduates of US medical schools, does not seem to warrant spending the time to check the citations of journal articles of all applicants for radiology residency positions. Nevertheless, it is reasonable to request that applicants bring to their interviews a copy of each cited article and to assess their knowledge of all other listed research activities.
This is the only reported series of frenuloplasty. The response rate reflects a young mobile population. Most men are satisfied with the outcome, including some initially advised to undergo circumcision. The overall rate of circumcision following frenuloplasty is likely to be 15-20%.
Our data provide further evidence that early stabilization of combined thoracic and thoracic spine injuries is safe, does not alter perioperative lung function, and results in a reduced overall ICU stay.
MRA appears to be an efficacious imaging modality in the evaluation of labral tears, cam-type impingement lesions and os acetabuli of the hip. MRA is less efficacious in the diagnosis of cartilage abnormalities in the hip, both femoral and acetabular. Researchers should focus on further improvements in imaging techniques in order to give reliable preoperative information to the surgeon.
Despite the model's capacity to predict 4-year graduation better than random assignment, a sufficient amount of error in prediction remained, suggesting that important predictors are missing from the model. Furthermore, the high rate of false-positives makes it inappropriate to use age and Medical College Admission Test score as admission screens in an attempt to eliminate attrition by not accepting at-risk students.
Our data suggest that for patients with cT2N0 distal rectal cancer who require an APR, preoperative pelvic radiation improves sphincter preservation without an apparent compromise in local control or survival.
These findings should alert clinicians to the potential danger of insomnia and the importance of its early identification and treatment in stroke patients.
Our study reports an interrelationship between plasmin caused by fibrinolysis activation by metabolic products of D. immitis and the appearance of pathological events similar to those described in the emergence of proliferative endarteritis in the cardiopulmonary dirofilariosis.
Screening-based decisions about access enable a more need-related access to WMR. As there were no differences between access decisions by rehabilitation centres and insurance agencies, access decisions can be realised already by the insurance agency.
This study showed that laparoscopic rectal cancer resection might safely be performed irrespective of age.
The present study reduces confidence in the ability of written emotional expression to benefit the disease status of asthma patients.
Access to care provided by rural and urban family physicians in Florida is being hampered by the malpractice situation and other factors. Policymakers may need to focus on these factors in an effort to relieve additional barriers to care for vulnerable populations.
The simultaneous occurrence of EF and metastatic skeletal melanoma is suggestive of the possibility of EF constituting a paraneoplastic syndrome.
Invitations to cervical cancer screening were information poor and biased in favour of participation. This means that informed choice is not possible, which is in conflict with modern requirements for personal involvement in medical decisions.
The robotic-assisted test battery has the ability to discriminate between subjects who developed PCS and those who did not. Additionally, poor visuomotor and proprioceptive performance were most strongly associated with subsequent PCS.
TM can no longer be regarded simply as a benign condition because of its association with testicular malignancy. In our series, 2 patients (5.2%) developed interval testicular cancers during follow-up US. There is no convincing evidence to suggest that TM might be premalignant. In rare instances of radiologically indeterminate cases, biopsy of the testis may be necessary.
OPCAB is safe and showed slight advantage over CEC supported groups but the number of grafts per patient was smaller.
Clinical prediction appears to be unreliable. Addition of at-rest ECG data results in some improvement, particularly in male patients, but it makes the high probability groups so small that the addition appears to be of limited clinical relevance.
Testosterone, SHBG, and IGF-1 may be important in determining hair patterning in men.
We argue that the central importance of pre-treatment symptom severity for predicting outcomes should advocate alternative treatment strategies (e.g. longer treatments, combination of psychotherapy and medication) in those who are most disturbed. Given the relatively small amount of variance explained by the other patient characteristics, process variables and patient-therapist interaction should additionally be taken into account in future research.
Despite the specific sample used in this study being composed only of university students, the use of the LSAS-SR can be indicated, in the Brazilian setting, for SAD screening in both clinical and research contexts.
Our series describes a so far not well-recognized autoimmune association of pilomotor seizures to limbic encephalitis. This etiology should be ruled out through a comprehensive diagnostic work-up even in cases of long-lasting TLE with typical hippocampal atrophy on MRI.
There was no association between sex and recanalization or outcome after IAT. These findings are in contrast to previous studies reporting better recanalization and outcome after IVT in women and might have implications in the selection of patients for IAT or IVT.
The results for endopyelotomy were disappointing in patients with crossing vessels, despite using EUS. The results suggest that patients with crossing vessels should be treated by laparoscopic pyeloplasty. More data are needed to compare endopyelotomy with laparoscopic pyeloplasty in patients with no crossing vessels.
HSCT has a profound and pervasive impact on the life of survivors-reducing their horizons and shrinking various parts of their worlds. While HSCT survivors can describe the ways in which their life has changed, many of their fears, anxieties, regrets and concerns are existential in nature and are ill-defined-making it exceeding unlikely that they would be adequately captured by standard psychometric measures of QoL post HSCT.
Despite a relatively simple algorithm for the investigation of solid pancreatic lesions, considerable heterogeneity remains in how these patients are evaluated before referral to HPB surgery. As the number of investigations increases after the index imaging test, there is increasing delay to both surgical consultation and definitive intervention. Education is required to expedite care and mitigate excess diagnostic tests.
Even when power output is maintained, information on remaining time may alter peripheral responses through a complex saving component to prevent higher energy expenditure during physical exercise.
Few studies of adolescent health have examined positive psychological characteristics, tending to focus instead on the effect of negative mood states and cognitions on health. This study demonstrates that positive well-being during adolescence predicts better perceived general health and fewer risky health behaviors during young adulthood. Aligned with the goals of the positive youth development perspective, promoting and nurturing positive well-being during the transition from childhood to adolescence may present a promising way to improve long-term health.
Most otolaryngology applicants leave their previous geographic area to attend residency. Based on these data, the authors recommend against giving weight to geography as a factor when inviting applicants to interview.
Our study did not provide support for the hypothesis that patients with a new diagnosis of cancer display a higher risk of TGA than cancer-free individuals.
The market-determined earnings per hour of Hispanic and Asian physicians are sensitive to the degree of ALREC in the local labor market. Larger sample sizes may be needed to find statistically significant results for black physicians.
A contralateral testicular cut-off length of 19-20 mm had the best accuracy in predicting monorchism in boys aged 11-30 months with unilateral NPT.
Our data, in conjunction with those of the 12 previously described subjects, suggest the existence of a currently unrecognized inaugural epilepsy syndrome of sporadic AD. Such a syndrome could be called the epileptic variant of AD because seizures are its sole feature for more than 2.5 years.
Our results suggest that use of a Nintendo Wii balance board and Wii Fit software for a minimum of thirty minutes per day in the patient's own home, over a five week period, is not effective as a balance training tool in children with cerebral palsy.
Propofol is associated with a significantly greater incidence of adverse respiratory events than is pentobarbital.
The current results suggest that modifiable societal factors are responsible for apparent racial disparities in breast and prostate cancer survival observed at larger geographic scales. This research presents a novel strategy for taking advantage of inconsistencies across geographic scales to evaluate the relative importance of innate and societal-level factors in explaining racial disparities in cancer survival.
This meta-analysis did not find any relationship between metronidazole exposure during the first trimester of pregnancy and birth defects.
Cytokines, expressed by the 3 groups of jaw lesions, can be detected in the cystic aspirate, and a comparison of the ratio of the expression of the aspirates demonstrated a differential expression pattern of cytokines among the 3 groups. These ratios could assist in establishing a prompt and accurate diagnosis of lesions that might be difficult to discern clinically and radiographically. The use of a simple, minimally invasive aspiration procedure can help to establish an accurate diagnosis.
Premarital haemoglobinopathy screening should not be mandatory in a non-prevalent region of a prevalent country as part of a national control programme. If screening is mandatory, it should be performed by total blood count or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, which are simple, rapid and less expensive than HPLC.
The results of the present study indicated that the elevated OPN level might play an important role in the etiopathogenesis of scoliosis, that is, it not only raises the risk for scoliosis in bipedal mice but also contributes to curve progression.
Our results suggest that these polymorphisms play a minor role in PIH.
Pre-procedural blood parameters do not independently predict ISR in DES, which is mainly determined by the presence of diabetes and post-procedural residual stenosis.
People with undiagnosed but prevalent hypothyroidism, diabetes mellitus and hypertension often have good self-rated health, while when aware of their diagnoses, they report reduced self-rated health. Use of screening, more sensitive tests and widened diagnostic criteria might have a negative effect on perceived health in the population.
The ratio of solid to cystic content, spongiform appearance, and echogenicity is a combination of US findings that may be helpful in distinguishing an NH from an FA, and may thereby help to avoid unnecessary fine-needle aspirations for "leave me alone" lesions.
A patchy growth mechanism was proposed, with an optimal growth at distinct moments in time at different positions around the stem circumference. This strategy creates the opportunity to form several growth layers simultaneously, as observed in 14 % of the studied trees, which may optimize tree growth under favourable conditions. Strong evidence was provided for a mainly endogenous trigger controlling cambium differentiation, with an additional influence of current environmental conditions in a trade-off between hydraulic efficiency and mechanical stability.
A focus on many of the risk factors identified in the 1999 report is supported herein. It is suggested that knowledge may not be an important determinant, but that relationships with parents and school, as well as expectations for the future, may have important influences on teenage pregnancy. The analysis also provides new insights into risk factors for pregnancies among the partners of young men.
Long-term survival is possible with parathyroid carcinoma. Death associated with parathyroid carcinoma was uncommon. A staging may be warranted despite the rarity of this disease.
The accessory nerve supplies the most important motor input to the trapezius. Motor innervations of the cervical plexus are not very significant.
There is a very high rate of morbidity and explantation after implantation of an artificial bowel sphincter for fecal incontinence. Four of 21 patients who still had an artificial sphincter in place had satisfactory continence at a mean follow-up of 38 months.
In uterine prolapse patients, technically similar uterosacral hysteropexy durability did not differ from hysterectomy-based cuff suspension nor between cohorts for cystocele or rectocele.
Abortion is a good opportunity for intervention, but especially so for socially disadvantaged women. It is essential to draw the attention of prescribers and women to the higher risk of contraceptive failure at the start of use of a method.
These results suggest a modulatory effect of AKR1C1 activity on anxiety levels, most likely through changes in progesterone and allopregnanolone levels within and outside the brain. In summary, this is the first evidence for the gender-specific implication of the AKR1C1 gene in the expression of anticipatory anxiety in PD. Further analyses to unravel the functional role of the SNPs detected here and replication analyses are needed to validate our results.
Delayed surgery after chemoradiation offered no clear benefits in terms of complete tumor response or downstaging. Predictive molecular factors should be investigated in the future for the proper selection of patients who will benefit from chemoradiation.
Our results indicate that serum adiponectin levels were inversely correlated with tumor tissue adiponectin levels, but no relationship between normal breast tissue and tumor tissue adiponectin levels was demonstrated. Adiponectin levels in breast tumor tissue increase while serum adiponectin levels decrease. Adiponectin might play an important role in the prevention of tumor progression by decreasing tissue neovascularization.
(18)F-RGD PET/CT allows for the noninvasive visualization of GBM lesions and the prediction of sensitivity to CCRT as early as 3 wk after treatment initiation.
The present data do not support the hypothesis of co-secretion of hormones by the pituitary adenoma as the cause of the GH and PRL responses to ovine corticotrophin releasing hormone observed in patients with Cushing's disease; it is suggested that a different mechanism, possibly involving an interaction between the ACTH secreting adenoma and the normal periadenomatous GH and PRL secreting cells, may be responsible.
Patients with Q(A) have more often ECG signs of no-reflow than other patients with MI. Previously described worse function of left ventricle in this group, may be partially caused by more frequent no-reflow occurring in those patients. This fact suggests that adjunctive therapy preventing no-reflow could be beneficial in this group of patients.
Only GABHS-positive patients benefit from penicillin V in their clinical cure in the first few days. Therefore, rapid testing is necessary. Treatment may be beneficial with regard to the clinical course, but it is not necessary.
Patients found sonographically to be a breech presentation at 25 weeks' gestation or later are at high risk for malpresentation at delivery.
Serum urea concentration is significantly affected by hydration status whereas eGFR is not.
These data support the theory that sustained endothelial dysfunction is involved in the molecular pathogenesis of radiation enteropathy, and point to TM as important in the chronic nature of radiation enteropathy and a potential target for prophylactic and therapeutic interventions.
Treatment of severe malocclusion seemed to improve OHRQoL via decreased facial pain. Decreased facial pain was associated especially with improved OHRQoL dimensions of physical pain, physical disability and social disability.
In isolated severe traumatic brain injury, prehospital endotracheal intubation was associated with significantly higher adjusted mortality rate and worsened admission oxygenation. Further prospective validation of these findings is warranted.
Graduates of Queen's University's third-year emergency medicine program appear to practise in accordance with their extra training.
Thrombophilia does hardly increase the risk of IUGR/PMPC or if so, it can be prevented by LMWH.
Epidural placement before engagement of the fetal head is associated with an increased incidence of malposition at delivery. This finding may provide an insight into the empiric observation that operative delivery is variably increased for patients laboring under epidural anesthesia.
For both patients, several unrecognized confounding factors for NDD were present. These cases illustrate the difficulties encountered by experienced clinicians in determining brain death using clinical criteria alone, and they suggest that more routine use of ancillary brain blood flow analyses should be recommended.
: Anesthesiologist-delivered GA was associated with a significantly higher diagnostic yield of EUS-FNA. GA should be considered a preferred sedation method for EUS-FNA of a solid pancreatic mass.
AA is an unusual event in patients with SCD. The likelihood of developing appendicitis in SCD patients is less than one third of that for the population at large. Conservative therapy is warranted in the large majority of patients with SCD who present with acute abdominal pain. Surgical exploration is best limited to patients with clear evidence of potential surgical pathology or progressive findings during a period of observation. The biologic basis of our findings remains unknown.
This study revealed that disclosing more detailed information of cancer for terminally ill cancer patients contributed to improving the quality of communication, irrespective of the stage of disclosure.
Baseline inflammatory scalp cytokines are higher than expected and reduce with shampooing. Scrutiny of the influence of hair moisturizer formulations and shampoo intervals and studies investigating pro-fibrotic cytokines are required. This may elucidate the predilection of afro-textured hair to scarring alopecia.
Most frequent users of EDs have periodic contact with primary care physicians. Communication and coordination of care between EDs and primary care settings could be easier than anticipated, because in most cases, frequent users of EDs seek most of their care from one main ED and one primary care physician.
Consolidation chemotherapy using paclitaxel/carboplatin may be inefficient and relatively toxic to advanced-stage epithelial ovarian cancer patients with complete response to six cycles of the same chemotherapy after surgery.
Alcohol intake regularly for long duration leads to oxidative stress. We suggest that PCO/GSH ratio can be used as a potential biomarker to assess oxidative stress in alcoholic hepatitis.
Our study strongly suggests that abnormalities occurring during early embryological development of the hepatic diverticulum are responsible for the association between abnormal PDA and ectopic distal location of the papilla of Vater in CBD.
Our data suggest that changes in the structure of the corneal endothelium are different in the first three decades of life compared to later decades. Reasons for this could be mechanical and physical influences, changing biochemical properties of the cornea and aqueous humor, or the embryological origin of the endothelium. This observation shows that age generally is not a deciding factor for intraocular surgeries.
Experimental pain from either masseter muscle or TMJ did not affect the MVBF, in accordance with the subject-based reports. Jaw muscle activity, except for EMG activity of the anterior temporalis and anterior digastric muscles during TMJ pain, also remained unaffected by pain. The findings suggest that it is not pain in itself but rather how pain is perceived that may lead to adaptation of motor function, supporting an integrated pain adaptation model.
Despite different recommendations for interpretation of HER2 in gastric versus breast cancer, equivocal and positive/amplified results visually, and by image cytometry, and where FISH was performed, are similar. This concordance is noted for biopsy, resection, and cell block specimens, for primary versus metastatic, and for moderately versus poorly differentiated carcinoma; HER2 positivity/amplification is most frequent with poor differentiation, but not significantly so. There seems to be no need for the HER2 image cytometric algorithm used for breast cancer, to be changed when used for assessment of gastric cancers.
Illness perceptions may be important while investigating quality of life in patients with prostate cancer. It may underlie quality-of-life differences in this group of patients and could inform decision makers about the importance of the provision of psychosocial services to patients with prostate cancer.
Physicians identified both positive and negative effects of gate-keeping. Overall, 72% of physicians thought gatekeeping was better than or comparable to traditional care arrangements.
This study has shown that the cosmetic result achieved has a marked bearing on the subsequent development of psychological outcome.
A history of victimisation and poor social relationships predicts the onset of emotional problems in adolescents. Previous recurrent emotional problems are not significantly related to future victimisation. These findings have implications for how seriously the occurrence of victimisation is treated and for the focus of interventions aimed at addressing mental health issues in adolescents.
Changing the strategy for phrenic nerve injury after paediatric heart surgery towards a more aggressive one with early plication of the diaphragm was not associated with the better outcome. Prospective randomized studies are needed to determine the optimal management of this complication.
The lesser mitotic inhibition in patients than in female controls might contribute to their greater mean G(2) chromosomal radiosensitivity. However, this hypothesis is not easily reconciled with other observations that (1) the significant difference in inhibition between the sexes in controls was not accompanied by any gender difference in radiosensitivity and (2) there was an inverse correlation between inhibition and age in controls, yet no age-related increase in radiosensitivity. There might, therefore, be no causal relationship between G(2) mitotic inhibition and chromosomal radiosensitivity.
The results of our study suggest that performing fluoroscopic esophagography in patients with pneumomediastinum is unnecessary when CT is negative for esophageal perforation.
Most people reporting spinal pain manage without any serious consequences. Low back pain more commonly results in some kind of consequence when compared to NP and MBP. Few age-related trends in consequences were seen with a slight predominance of women reporting consequences.
The diagnostic performance of DWI is equal to that of Gd-MRI. DWI alone can be used in patients where gadolinium contrast administration is not allowed. Combination of Gd-MRI and DWI significantly increases diagnostic accuracy.
The TF assays used in this study showed acceptable sensitivity and specificity and are cost-effective and practical. Therefore, they should be considered in patients with, or at risk of, DVT.
Complications of diverticular disease occur de novo in the majority of patients who have no previous history of the disease. Further studies are needed to identify risk factors for complicated diverticular disease before adopting a policy of elective interval colectomy.
T2DM men without CHD had similar CRP levels with non-diabetic CHD patients, whereas CRP levels of T2DM men with CHD were higher than non-diabetic men with CHD. Because of a positive correlation between serum hs-CRP and HbA1c, fasting insulin and HOMA-IR, inflammation, insulin resistance and hyperglycemia jointly contribute to the cardiovascular risk in T2DM men.
One cause of unexplained infertility may be unbalanced secretion of sVEGFR-1 with concomitant changes in free VEGF during the transition from the follicular to the luteal phase. This aberration may be related to impaired implantation.
Over the years, our AUR rate has fallen significantly (from 17% to 6.3%). On multivariate analysis, highly significant factors include
We did not find that D&E was a risk factor for preterm delivery when compared with women with a prior IOL or national rates.
Fracture propensity for 36-mm liners was elevated for cups with decreased anteversion and/or inclination and under conditions of patient obesity.
Endoscopic adrenalectomy for pheochromocytoma is suitable as a routine operation and harbors no increased risk of cardiovascular complications, making it the method of choice. The open procedure should be reserved for extraadrenal tumors or large tumors with the suspicion of malignancy.
Slow 8-foot walk time in older Mexican-American adults without cognitive impairment at baseline was an independent predictor of MMSE score decline over a 7-year period. Slow 8-foot walk time may be an early marker for older adults in a predementia state who may benefit from early-intervention programs to prevent or slow cognitive decline.
The frequency of acid gastroesophageal reflux is higher in preterm infants who received antenatal corticosteroids.
In most cases no clinical substrate could be identified in symptoms usually contributed to LPR. These are often non specific and a careful examination of other factors should be taken.
This is the first study to investigate complex multivariate associations between affinity profiles and the geometric properties of protein binding sites. We found that, except for few specific cases, the shapes of the binding pockets have relatively low weights in the determination of the affinity profiles of proteins. Since the MAF profile is closely related to the target specificity of ligand binding sites we can conclude that the shape of the binding site is not a pivotal factor in selecting drug targets. Nonetheless, based on strong specific associations between certain MAF profiles and specific geometric descriptors we identified, the shapes of the binding sites do have a crucial role in virtual drug design for certain drug categories, including morphine derivatives, benzodiazepines, barbiturates and antihistamines.
The study supports the hypothesis that physical leisure time activities reduce the risk of developing persistent fatigue.
According to the study findings, prophylactic stent insertion during ERCP before cholecystectomy has no impact on biliary complications.
Endocuff-assisted colonoscopy showed good procedural success rates in terms of cecal intubation rate and time, and a promising adenoma detection rate. Endocuff seems to improve endoscope tip control, especially during polypectomy. Endocuff may be a useful device for colorectal adenoma screening, and should be investigated in larger trials.
Our findings showed that epidural analgesia is associated with an increased risk of prolonged labor, and instrumental and cesarean delivery but is not related to increased postpartum SUI. Regarding the impact of the timing of epidural analgesia given in the labor course, the first stage of labor appeared to last longer when analgesia was administered early rather than late.
Premature infants managed with the new adjustable fortification regimen had significantly higher weight and head circumference gains than infants managed with standard fortification. Higher protein intake appears to have been primarily responsible for the improved growth with the adjustable regimen. The new fortification method could be a solution to the problem of protein undernutrition among premature infants fed human milk.
The EQ-5D is responsive to the recovery from a moderate COPD exacerbation.
These results are discussed within a psychoanalytical framework, with particular reference to relational security and the value of positive risk-taking.
When ablating ATP-sensitive AT with the earliest activation recorded in the HB catheter, it is important to perform detailed mapping not only around the HB.
Between 1982 and 1992 mean patient age increased considerably, the open heart procedure became more extensive and the hospital mortality decreased.
We conclude that the needle and local anaesthetic placement using the standard landmark-based approach to the TAP block is inaccurate, and the incidence of peritoneal placement is unacceptably high.
This study highlights the frequency of urinalysis testing among the elderly residing in the community. Clinical indications are often absent, and treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria is likely to be contributing to excessive antibiotic prescription in this group of patients.
The expression of high levels of MR and 11 beta-HSD1 in preterm fetal lung suggest low endogenous fetal cortisol may exert actions at the high affinity MR in vivo, leading to increases in expression of sodium channels important in the regulation of lung liquid secretion and reabsorption.
Our results demonstrate that the cut-off values for WC that would best predict cardiometabolic risk associated with insulin resistance are 93 cm for men and 83 cm for women in Turkish adults. However, our findings also raise the question as to whether it is indeed necessary to define a WC cut-off value for the prediction of insulin resistance, because, regardless of the cut-off WC value taken into account, insulin resistance will be overlooked in a significant number of individuals with a WC below this cut-off value.
Cervical length by translabial sonography was not associated with duration of the latency period or peripartum maternal infection in women with PPROM.
This two-dose study in NHPs suggests that ST0702 is more effective than IR niacin on lipid profiles, while suppressing TXB(2) and PGD(2) increases and prevents post-prandial glycaemia. ST0702 shows promise as a new IR therapeutic option for niacin.
Endoscopic treatment of malignant polyps does not worsen surgical and oncologic outcomes in cases of subsequent surgery. Because mortality and morbidity are low, oncologic resection generally should be done in the presence of risk factors for residual cancer.
DLU after treatment does not indicate lymphomatous involvement of the lungs.
The long-term survivors identified in this study did not meet the appropriate prognostic criteria. Therefore, there are limitations in the use of statistically determined prognostic factors for estimating in the long term.
Women with preeclampsia undergoing labor induction had higher cesarean delivery rates compared with non-preeclamptics regardless of parity or gestational age. However, the majority of women with preeclampsia still had successful vaginal deliveries.
To our knowledge this is the first study to demonstrate a positive association between ALS and PA participation using a specifically designed and validated historical PA questionnaire. Despite the well-established health benefits of PA, a high activity lifestyle may also be associated with elevated risk of ALS. Large-scale prospective studies in the future may help to confirm this association.
Mild abnormalities of intravascular Starling forces may play a role in the formation of hydrops in anemic fetuses.
Measurement of early postoperative levels of TnI may aid in the early identification of children who will develop LCOS.
These data suggest that oral contraceptive use does not significantly affect muscle strength. Moreover, oral contraceptive users were not stronger or weaker than their eumenorrheic counterparts.
The quantification of social media impacts is beneficial to better understand people's tendency and may promote developing strategies to engage public opinions effectively. Our proposed method is a promising tool to explore information hidden in social phenomena.
Significant differences in concentrations of fasting plasma leptin have been observed between lean male HF and LF consumers. These findings suggest that the difference in leptin concentrations could be associated with a metabolic adaptation which could help to offset the weight inducing properties of high fat (high energy) diets.
This study highlighted the impact of the characteristics of the primary caregiver on a child's health and development and the importance of practical interventions for preschool-aged children who are left behind and raised with different parenting patterns.
Left ventricular false tendon is a normal finding visualized by fetal echocardiography from week 20 and is present until adulthood with no pathologic effects except for innocent murmur during childhood. It remains to be determined if false tendon is the cause of the murmurs or if its absence or structural anomalies are related to disease.
Contributing to national databases gives useful information that may be difficult to ascertain from RCTs. Suburethral tapes appear to have good efficacy and low complications with increasing age.
KIM-1 U concentrations may predict cisplatin-induced AKI in early stages with high sensitivity and specificity.
The experienced and inexperienced groups were  similar in their overall MH performance; the only difference was the observation of the highest PIF in the results from the experienced group.
The customized bracket shields were effective in reducing discomfort during the first 3 days of orthodontic treatment despite no significant difference in terms of visible mucosa alteration.
Considering available data, role and interest of bone markers in management of burn related bone disease remain unclear.
The size of an endometrioma measured by transvaginal ultrasound does not correlate with the extent of adhesive disease. Small (<3 cm) endometriomas may be associated with a considerable degree of pelvic adhesions.
In gastroschisis, fetal gastric dilation is associated with meconium-stained amniotic fluid at delivery, but is not predictive of any serious perinatal or postnatal complications. Fetal growth and well-being should be serially evaluated on ultrasound using biophysical and Doppler assessment to decide on the optimal timing and mode of delivery.
Our study shows that hRPTEC export Hcy into the cell culture medium, an effect that is enhanced by in vitro methionine loading and modulated by the presence of vitamins. Cyclosporine A had no major influence on Hcy export from tubule cells. Therefore, our findings do not support the assumption that cyclosporine A elevates total homocysteine plasma levels in organ transplant patients.
Asking simple questions about the intention to be vaccinated against seasonal influenza may be an efficient means of identifying patients with whom extended discussion of vaccine benefits is warranted.
The ALMANACH built on electronic devices was perceived to be a powerful and useful tool. However, health system challenges influenced the uptake of the devices in the selected health facilities.
CACS combination with SCORE risk predicts coronary artery stenosis. When CACS is zero, CTCA can be performed in patients with high or very high SCORE risk.
These recent data may discuss Gaucher's classification and the existence of a continuum between neurologic and non-neurologic forms of the disease.
The relatively high rates of disagreement regarding the optimal diagnostic approach and presumed primary cause illustrate the difficulties of diagnostic evaluation and subsequent therapeutic strategy design for this patient group. Therefore, children with UCP might be at risk for suboptimal care.
These results showed a large percentage of patients with MES detection in a bubble study with transcranial Doppler more than one year after the procedure of PFO closure, showing right-to-left residual shunting. Despite the small number of patients, this study provides important data about this therapeutic decision.
Zidovudine exposures are very important during labour and during the first days of a neonate's life. Maternal ZDV dose should be reduced in addition to the neonate doses reduction already proposed.
An exact reconstruction of the natural Joint Line is achievable when using the described soft tissue balancing surgical technique with the posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) retaining prosthesis design used in this series.
Fair organisational and managerial procedures may buffer the negative health effects of psychosocial health risks outside work.
Including trisialo transferrin into the CDT fraction enlarges the analytical signal and therefore slightly improves assay precision but also results in a significant number of pathologic results in samples exhibiting physiologic levels of the classical CDT components asialo to disialo transferrin. As long as the diagnostic information of the trisialo transferrin concentration is largely unknown, we strongly recommend not to include this isotransferrin into the determination of CDT.
One in 7 Xpert-positive retreatment patients were culture negative and potentially false positive. False positivity was associated with recent previous tuberculosis, high CT, and a chest radiograph not suggestive of active tuberculosis. Clinicians may consider awaiting confirmatory testing in retreatment patients with CT>30; however, most false positives fall below this cut-point. Xpert can detect DNA from nonviable, nonintact bacilli.
We suggest that leptin may modulate withdrawal-induced craving in alcoholic subjects.
Asymptomatic peripheral angiographic stenoses and occlusions become symptomatic in one third of patients, necessitating treatment in 13.9% overall. Previous contralateral BKA and statin use were independent predictors of adverse outcome in this population. Close clinical follow-up and appropriate risk factor modification are recommended.
There is a likely association between VWS and taurodontism.
In patients admitted for decompensated HF, high serum osmolarity predicts a worse outcome, and is associated with a higher comorbidity burden, supporting its use as a candidate prognostic target in HF.
The findings suggest that medical students do not accurately perceive what patients believe about their own health. Whether this is true for residents and providers in practice remains unknown.
Revision of STAs is a more demanding procedure. The postoperative complication rate was slightly higher in the SRA group. The group with revision of SRAs showed slightly better clinical and radiographic results, but there was no statistically significant difference between the groups.
Charts documented primarily by EM residents were more likely to be downcoded than charts documented primarily by PAs or ED attendings. This downcode rate resulted in a greater loss of revenue in the resident group. We believe this represents an area for improvement in EM residency education.
This study indicates that the conventional TFR(p) consistently underestimates the fertility quantum in periods characterized by changes in timing of births, and that the TFR(' ) generally provides good indication of actual cohort quantum for the period in question. Considerable tempo-effects were observed within counties; however, differences between regions were not explained by changes in timing of births.
The key factors influencing the management strategy and clinical outcome are EDHV and GCS at the time of admission. A patient with EDH should not be considered for conservative management if EDHV is more than 30 ml and GCS is 13 or less.
Performance of LNF without a bougie offers a safe and effective therapy for gastroesophageal reflux disease. While avoiding the potential risks for gastric and esophageal injury, it may provide low rates of long-term postoperative dysphagia and reflux recurrence.
In spite of major baseline differences between studied cohorts, the survival of LBW infants in Bogotá is similar between the KMI and the "traditional care". Questions remain about quality of life, especially regarding weight gain and neurodevelopment, that may be answered by a Randomized Controlled Trial.
In the case of dangerous psychiatric patients, medication, administered forcibly when necessary, is preferable to seclusion as far as subsidiarity, proportionality and expediency are concerned. A strategy whereby medication provides appropriate treatment and seclusion is kept within reasonable limits cannot be termed 'substitution'.
Patients who received a single solution of midazolam and fentanyl had a higher cumulated dose of compared with those patients who did not. The potential risk for long-term neurologic effects on developing brains associated with this finding should be considered.
Retinal vessel appearances may provide a 'window' to the brain and help determine the important underlying pathophysiological mechanisms of small vessel disease stroke.
Sequential cUS during the neonatal period detects severely abnormal WM in very preterm infants but is less reliable for mildly and moderately abnormal WM. MRI around TEA seems needed to reliably detect WM injury in very preterm infants.
Although seminoma and mixed germ cell tumors are common, "their presentation in the some testicle as independent nodules with different histologies is a rarely referred case in the literature, which allows us to apply a histogenetic and ultrasound-pathologic correlation model in seminomatous and nonseminomatous tumors. The presence of cystic cavities and gross calcifications is highly correlated with teratoma. In our case there are not significant differences in the vascularization pattern with Doppler ultrasound.
These results illustrate that muscle energy requirement is greater when muscle fascicle shortening and/or velocity of shortening is increased, and suggest that greater activation contributes to that increased energy requirement.
A one-question test identifies only three out of every 10 patients with depression in primary care, thus unacceptable if relied on alone. Ultra-short two- or three-question tests perform better, identifying eight out of 10 cases. This is at the expense of a high false-positive rate (only four out of 10 cases with a positive score are actually depressed). Ultra-short tests appear to be, at best, a method for ruling out a diagnosis and should only be used when there are sufficient resources for second-stage assessment of those who screen positive.
Significant initial expansion and early growth of woven vascular Dacron grafts occurs; it is slightly different in the ascending and descending aorta. Graft expansion should be anticipated when selecting grafts for aortic valve-sparing procedures to prevent development of regurgitation, and, for endoluminal repair of thoracoabdominal aneurysms, to prevent development of type III endoleaks in the projected landing zone.
Self-reported medication use may be a valid measure of ethnic groups' medication use if ethnic differences in characteristics, like household income are held constant. However, an important determinant of validity for all ethnic groups is whether medications are used routinely, or for a specific episode.
Tamoxifen has a significant affect on hormone receptor expression and markers of apoptosis in endometrial polyps. The results support the hypothesis that tamoxifen promotes polyp growth by inhibiting apoptosis. The mechanism for this does not appear to be oestrogen receptor mediated.
Initiation of epidural analgesia in early labor, following the first request for epidural, did not result in increased cesarean deliveries, instrumental vaginal deliveries, and other adverse effects; furthermore, it was associated with shorter duration of the first stage of labor and was clearly preferred by the women.
Endoscopic and histologic assessments differ in both active and inactive UC. Overdiagnosis of inflammation using endoscopy versus histology can significantly affect outcomes, at least in studies using induction of clinical remission as an endpoint. The assessment criteria for trials in UC should be reconsidered.
Hyponatremia with increased osmolar gap related to endogenous solutes accumulation is observed frequently in hyponatremic intensive care patients, especially in patients with the most severe organ dysfunctions. The nature of the endogenous solutes accounting for the increased osmolar gap remains to be determined. Simultaneous correction of sodium and osmolar gap suggests a causal link between increased osmolar gap and hyponatremia and may support the concept of sick cell syndrome.
Pelvic obliquity in thoracolumbar neuromuscular scoliosis from lumbosacral myelomeningocele spontaneously corrected when the scoliotic deformity is adequately addressed with instrumented fusion without inclusion of the sacrum. The correction obtained remained stable at follow-up. In the absence of a control group we believe that sparing lumbar segments from primary fusion offers these patients a better freedom of mobility.
Idiopathic granulomatosis mastitis requires histological confirmation, close monitoring, exclusion of underlying systemic autoimmune conditions and judicious use of steroids and steroid-sparing agents such as methotrexate. It has a protracted course with some patients relapsing quickly upon cessation of steroids.
The mentioned prognostic factors may be useful in determining the adequate (local and systemic) therapy and the best time for it. Our data support previous findings, that certain subgroups with favourable prognostic features exist and they might still have a chance for cure by an adequate local treatment, whereas subgroups of patients with unfavourable prognostic factors have to receive systemic therapy immediately following local therapy because of the forthcoming systemic progression.
Known variations in the PDGF-[beta] gene do not have a significant effect on promoting or preventing fibrogenesis in pancreatitis. Further evaluation of this important pathway is warranted.
The results of histological examination are surprising, due to the fact of previous insertion of a vascularized bone graft and pretended osseointegration of inserted dental implants with satisfying primary stability. Therefore, one would expect vital bone. For better understanding how much viability is really necessary for sufficient remodeling of inserted bone grafts for adequate functional load, further studies should be performed.
Although this study does not prove a causal relationship between multiple prescription drug use and poor cognitive functioning, the results are relevant for psychosocial recovery, vocational rehabilitation, and psychological treatment of OST patients. Especially for patients with BZD treatment, other treatment options should be actively sought.
Procalcitonin may prove to be a useful parameter to identify early postoperative systemic complications after fracture surgery.
This study provided evidence that ReCaP for Residents was an effective curriculum for increasing residents' knowledge of cancer prevention. The authors recommend that more extensive programs of this type be implemented.
In spite of differences in age, education, and occupation between cleric-sex offenders and sex offenders in general, the same procedures should be used in the assessment of this group as for the sex offender population in general. Hypotheses about reduced sexual outlet and increased sexual abuse of clerics in childhood were not supported. Assessment and treatment of cleric-sex offenders should focus especially on sexual deviance, substance abuse, and endocrine disorders.
The drug MDMA increased "empathogenic" feelings but reduced accurate identification of threat-related facial emotional signals in others, findings consistent with increased social approach behavior rather than empathy. This effect of MDMA on social cognition has implications for both recreational and therapeutic use. In recreational users, acute drug effects might alter social risk-taking while intoxicated. Socioemotional processing alterations such as those documented here might underlie possible psychotherapeutic benefits of this drug; further investigation of such mechanisms could inform treatment design to maximize active components of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy.
Obesity did not seem to confer an increased risk for ERCP-induced pancreatitis. A statistically significant association between obesity and the severity of ERCP-induced pancreatitis was not apparent.
The utility of FDG-PET/CT is limited for evaluation of primary tumor extension and nodal status. FDG-PET/CT is useful for detecting distant metastasis and for evaluating activity in supraclavicular or abdominal lymph nodes. It is also useful for identifying unsuspected diseases.
ITM may be a useful adjunct to PCA, but did not decrease time to ambulation or length of stay.
This study provides preliminary evidence that pharmacotherapy for ADHD may have a protective effect in ADHD youths, reducing the risk of later MDD.
The Stepwise Target Group-Oriented Prevention (STOP) strategy is a step toward improvement in COPD prevention, by shifting the focus from the group of a focus symptomatic smokers aged 45+ years to much earlier and preventable stages of the disease, that is, from disease treatment to risk management.
Renal damage in rats after PRRT appeared to start in a dose-dependent manner in the proximal tubules and continued to the more distal tubules with increasing amounts of injected activity. In vivo SPECT measurement of (99m)Tc-DMSA uptake was highly accurate to grade renal tubular damage after PRRT.
Although NT-proBNP did not add any prognostic value to the MRS model for CIN, NT-proBNP, as a simple biomarker, was similar to MRS, and may be another useful and rapid screening tool for CIN and death risk assessment, identifying subjects who need therapeutic measures to prevent CIN.
Alcohol use is not independently associated with increased prevalence of cavitary disease in adult patients with TB.
These data suggest that in more advanced stages of congestive heart failure, power spectral analysis of heart rate variability allows identification of a subgroup of patients with higher sympathetic activation and poorer clinical status who are at major risk of adverse events. In the short term after cardiac transplantation the spectral profile of the rhythm variability of the remnant atrium was not improved, suggesting that parasympathetic withdrawal and sympathetic hyperactivity persist, despite the restoration of ventricular function.
Patient participation to patient safety is a field of study, which requires to be developed in order to define the conditions enhancing such participation and to implement a set of actions to improve healthcare safety by a cooperative management of this one.
The redistribution of expenses from inpatient to outpatient care including integrated health care approaches would result in more cost-effective mental health care.
When comparing the early versus conventional otolaryngology match time periods, the only major change was the decreased percentage of matching among non-US senior applicants. Despite a significant shift in match timing after 2006, the supply, demand, and competitiveness of otolaryngology residency positions have not changed significantly.
For diagnosis of DESD, EUSP measurement is inaccurate and cannot replace combined pelvic floor EMG and VCUR.
Both the immunogenetic and the synovial biopsies suggest that a variation in IL-10 production is associated with joint destruction.
Obese patients are at higher risk for postoperative hypoxia, but this leads to a prolonged intensive care unit stay only for moderate-morbid obese patients. Obese patients are partially protected against the deleterious effects of hemodilution and transfusions. Underweight patients present the "paradox" of a better lung gas exchange but a longer intensive care unit stay. This is probably due to a higher severity of their cardiac disease.
Patients with septic shock rarely have iron saturated transferrin in their plasma leading to the presence of bleomycin-detectable iron.
The results demonstrate that emergency physicians with less rescue experience rated the severity of illness or injury relatively lower in comparison to colleagues who had worked in the pre-hospital setting for many years.
New-onset POAF does affect 6-month postoperative mental and physical health, possibly warranting more aggressive POAF treatment.
Barrett's esophagus is frequently suspected at endoscopy; SSBE was more frequently suspected than LSBE, but was correctly diagnosed only 25% of the time, versus 55% for LSBE. Endoscopists diagnosed BE with a sensitivity of 82% and a specificity of 81%. However, the positive predictive value was only 34%, whereas the negative predictive value was 97%. The length of the columnar-appearing segment is the strongest predictor of BE at endoscopy. Alternative methods are needed to better identify BE patients endoscopically, especially those with SSBE.
Dynamic differences might explain the global pulmonary root dilatation when subjected to systemic pressure, particularly at the level of the sinotubular junction which might result in the autograft failure. Differences in the asymmetrical expansion of the aortic and pulmonary roots should be considered for the implantation of the pulmonary autograft in the most physiological position.
Patients with larger superior canal dehiscences show significantly more vestibulocochlear symptoms/signs, lower VEMP thresholds, and objective vestibular findings compared with smaller ones. Smaller dehiscences mainly present with either cochlear or vestibular dysfunction.
This preliminary study in a small number of patients identified specific MRI features of supraspinatus tears in patients older than 70 years compared to younger patients. A larger study would be useful to confirm these findings.
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of a strategy of screening and treating postmenopausal female RA patients with BMD T scores of<-1.0, compared with watchful waiting, was greater than that of other well-accepted medical interventions. The cost-effectiveness ratios were more acceptable when a T score treatment threshold of<-2.5 was used. These conclusions are limited by the lack of data on fracture and treatment efficacy in corticosteroid-treated patients.
After a decline between 1987 and sometime during 1997-2001, the sperm concentration in men presenting as donors remained unchanged between 2002 and 2014, suggesting semen quality has not changed in New Zealand men over the last decade.
For patients with HHH deficits, the anatomic location of the lesion (C versus S versus M) does not affect functional outcome.
These findings suggest that alcohol-related behavior by both couples and individuals are important factors to consider in the relationship between IPV and alcohol use in this population.
Patients with hemodialysis-associated CTS seem to remain impaired, unlike patients with idiopathic CTS, but the majority of them might have much improved CTS-related symptoms at 2 years after carpal tunnel release.
Examination of pleural effusion samples by lipoprotein electrophoresis may provide important additional information in the diagnosis of chylothorax.
While simple meta-analysis across all SSRIs for treatment of pediatric depression provided general efficacy and safety information, meta-analysis of individual drugs and use of cumulative meta-analytic techniques may have expedited our ability to formulate conclusions about safety and efficacy of SSRIs in pediatric depression.
TLR was found for the first time, to the best of our knowledge, in a male subject. There were no definitive signs of retinal degeneration, suggesting that this reflex in itself is not necessarily a precursor of the retinal degeneration that can be seen in female carriers of XLRP.
In our study there was no significant difference in patient discomfort between instilling lignocaine gel and smearing of Aquagel in completion of flexible cystoscopy. However, application of lignocaine gel added extra time, effort and cost to the procedure.
Current and adolescent calcium intake, family history of osteoporosi calciuria, and exercise have not found useful as screening of osteopenia in premenopausal women with moderated exercise level and low consumption of alcohol and tobacco.
Worsening clinical severity correlated significantly with worseing pathology, findings from blood test and clinical outcomes; rates of conversion and morbidity. However, the Tokyo guidelines may have a tendency to underestimate the extent of inflammation in male patients with severity grade I and over estimate the difficulty of dissection in severity grade II.
Most patients with a PSA response after primary hormone therapy show a further response to hormones before becoming truly hormone-refractory. There is a concern that the rush to use novel agents will reduce the period of successful palliation in these patients rather than being additive. Patients should show complete hormone refractoriness before newer agents are added to prostate cancer treatment.
In patients without HF mitral E/E' ratio is influenced by EF and LV volumes and is better correlated with the pre-a LVDP than with the LVEDP. The suboptimal sensitivity and specificity of E/E' for predicting increased LVDP suggest that the mitral E/E' ratio is of limited clinical value in patients without HF.
The complexity of the dosage regimen of a low-molecular-weight heparin has a decisive influence on guideline-compliance. By calculating total costs on the basis of procedure and technical application multi-dose vials only offer a price advantage in patients with a low or moderate risk of thromboembolism compared with pre-filled safety syringes in the venous thromboembolism prophylaxis of orthopaedic and trauma surgery patients.
There is a clear need for tools to help oncologists integrate prognostic information for primary breast cancer patients. Such tools might lead to greater accuracy and uniformity of prognostic estimates. Such tools might also help make clear what prognostic tests are worth using for routine clinical practice.
Because of the low specificity, indirect assessment using a history of trauma cannot be recommended as a screening instrument in a general hospital setting. Despite a high number of false positives, the Trauma Scale may serve as an additional tool in conjunction with direct questionnaires when high sensitivity is desired.
Considering bond strength and application procedure, 1-SEAs are not always a better alternative to multistep adhesives.
It appears that health care providers, despite increased demands on their time, adequately discuss with their patients the reasons for ordering a pelvic sonographic examination. However, our study suggests that health care providers may need to spend additional time with patients whose education is limited and that male physicians may need to pay particular attention to their communication with female patients.
A lifestyle-change intervention feasibility programme for pre-diabetic patients was implemented in general clinical practice. The potential of a low-glycaemic-load diet to be more effective than a low-fat diet in promoting change in the features associated with progression to diabetes is worthy of further investigation.
The clinical symptoms of Chiari I malformations in children are nearly identical to those seen in adults. Children with greater amounts of tonsillar ectopia on MRI are more likely to be symptomatic.
Recognizing the risk factors and careful management for preventing both AKI and CKD may improve the prognosis of patients following LDLT.
Both SI and ASI of>1.0 predict 6 weeks mortality but not longer length of stay in CAP.
Our findings suggest that improved mental health services reduce the risk of juvenile justice involvement.
ALT value at day 1 and Child-Pugh score at day 7 turned out to be the only variables with independent prognostic value for survival during the first six months postransplant. The MEGX value may be of help in selecting donors and a subgroup of receptors (day 1<40 ng/ml) with a high risk of mortality.
We reported on a group of patients exhibiting selective impairment of some components of personal memory, associated with interictal frontal and/or temporal abnormalities on EEG. To account for these findings, we hypothesise that interictal epileptic-related activity is impeding long-term consolidation or storage of autobiographical material.
HIV infection was not associated with receipt of guidance-concordant care but reduced survival in early-stage patients.
A sagittal Cobb angle difference between lumbar lordosis and thoracic kyphosis of>20 degrees (higher lumbar lordosis) is advisable in most circumstances to achieve optimal sagittal balance.
Survey findings indicated the video was well presented and relevant, and the Web-based format was considered convenient and satisfactory. Participants would take other courses using this technology, and agreed this program would enhance patient care.
In our study, the presence of APA in CD children without catch-up growth after GFD seems to be able to identify an autoimmune form of hypophysitis involving the somatotrophs cells.
LRH with en-bloc diaphragmatic resection could be reasonably performed for selected patients in expert centers. Technical difficulties related to diaphragmatic invasion must be circumvented. Further experience must be gained to confirm our results.
According to our study, we cannot demonstrate any benefit in reconstructing the whole aortic root for discrete SAS. A single-patch technique is easy, safe and appears durable.
In the examination of circadian variation of stroke case fatality, 28-day case fatality rate tended to be higher for the morning strokes.
It was possible to analyze the functional fitness of postmenopausal women through the set of the American Alliance testing for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance with no significant differences between groups for the variables strength, flexibility, aerobic capacity and coordination, and with only the speed variable showing significant differences. We recommend further studies seeking to formulate normative values for the population in question.
The experimental results obtained here indicate that RHA rats display a deficit of latent inhibition at threshold conditions, an information processing (or attentional) anomaly which typically appears in schizophrenic patients. It is proposed that RHA rats might be an useful animal model for the study of vulnerability to some schizophrenic symptoms. This conclusion is supported by data that indicate that latent inhibition deficits are a characteristic attentional abnormality of these diseases.
There was an overall saving of euro99 for the fleece-bound sealing procedure compared to standard techniques for sealing the lung following pulmonary resection.
Overall satisfaction was high, but there was discordance among different providers. Continuity of care was limited. Age and location of death alone did not significantly affect satisfaction with end-of-life care. Implications of this type of research for improving end of life care at academic centers are discussed.
Multiple small-diameter drilling core decompression combined with systemic alendronate administration can reduce pain and delay progression of early-stage ONFH. Even in Ficat IIA and III hips, some benefit was obtained from this approach at least delay in the need for THA.
Increased pharmaceutical consumption helps improve mortality outcomes, especially for those at middle age and older.
Accelerated PDR-brachytherapy following breast conserving surgery (BCS) for local IBTR results in local tumour control comparable to mastectomy. Morbidity is moderate; the cosmetic outcome is good and hardly any impairment on QoL is observed.
The differences in endoparasites between P. toxostoma and C. nasus in allopatry are probably linked to different feeding or habitat conditions, but host-parasite evolutionary associations also play an important role in determining the presence of Chondrostoma-specific monogeneans. Our findings suggest that Dactylogyrus expanded with the source host C. nasus into introduced areas and that P. toxostoma became infected after contact with C. nasus. Although the genotype of P. toxostoma and recombinant genotypes of hybrids are susceptible to Dactylogyrus transmitted from C. nasus, the intensity of infection is low in these genotypes.
The results illustrate that hFAT1 does not display the pattern of expression seen with the E-cadherin-ss-catenin adhesion complex; however, its over-expression and diffuse expression in both in situ and invasive carcinoma strongly suggests a role in carcinogenesis. From the known functions of FAT1 it is suggested that the concurrent loss of classical cadherins from cell-cell junctions accompanied by increased FAT1 expression contributes to loss of duct formation, and increased cell migration and invasion.
Preparation for future learning and the associated capacity of being adaptive as one learns in and from training and clinical practice have been missed in most contemporary training and assessment systems. We propose a research agenda that (i) explores how real-world adaptive expert activity unfolds in the health care workplace to inform the design of instruction for developing PFL, (ii) identifies measures of behaviours that relate to PFL, and (iii) addresses potential sociocultural barriers that limit clinicians' opportunities to learn from their daily practice.
The difference in malaria reports between the boroughs only just reached statistical significance, despite the considerable difference in chemoprophylaxis prescribing between the boroughs. Some travellers may not consider using chemoprophylaxis, irrespective of the cost. Regular evaluations of the recent policy changes in areas where malaria is subsidized will be important.
BDSR can be justified as an alternative radical operation for patients with middle bile duct in selected patients with no adjacent organ invasion and resection margin is negative.
Patients with a large hiatus hernia are more prone to have pathological gastroesophageal reflux and to have more acid symptoms than patients with a small hiatus hernia. However, it is unlikely that patients with an absence of acid symptoms will have pathological reflux regardless of hernia size.
Few CEAs modeled suboptimal medication adherence. As CEAs are meant to model "real world" costs and effects of interventions, investigators would do well to explicitly consider medication adherence in the future.
The poststenting lumen changes due to plaque redistribution were associated with stent length, lumen reduced at proximal and distal edge of short stents and proximal edge of long stents but not at the distal edge of long stents.
The sex difference in actual clump capacity and its unpredictability from younger shoots are consistent with our hypothesis that males should hold less water than females to facilitate sexual reproduction. These results provide conceptual connections to other plant groups and implications for connecting divergent selection to female-biased sex ratios in B. argenteum and other bryophytes.
Half of the children with RLAI had tracheo and/or bronchomalacia, their frequency being in keeping with previous reports and far higher than that observed in controls. It was associated with profuse respiratory secretions and with a higher frequency of positive BAL cultures mostly for non typable H. influenzae and S. pneumoniae which were not isolated in controls.
Objectively measured MVPA, LPA and SB were all associated with lower adiposity and metabolic risk. The beneficial associations of LPA are encouraging for older adults for whom initiating MVPA and maintaining bouts lasting ≥10 min may be particularly challenging. Findings that short bouts of LPA (1-9 min) and SB (1-15 min), but that all MVPA, not just MVPA accumulated in bouts ≥10 min were associated with lower adiposity and better metabolic health could help refine older adult PA guidelines.
There may be a very small decrement in fellows' abilities to intubate the cecum after a break in endoscopy training. Because these changes are so small, teaching endoscopy in blocks is probably adequate, if necessary to balance other clinical and research experience. However, further research is needed to determine whether a longitudinal endoscopy experience is superior for attaining and maintaining competency, to evaluate the effects of breaks longer than 8 weeks, and to determine whether the effects of breaks depend on the previous volume of experience with colonoscopy.
Highly motivated families who frequently monitor their child's blood glucose increased the frequency of BGM before the child's clinic visit. The additional monitoring may benefit the child by providing the physician with a wealth of blood glucose information to guide recommendations.
The results data support the view that SubD occupies a milder position on a continuum with MDD.
We have found no cases of residual hip dysplasia requiring treatment in children with a family history of DDH and a normal hip ultrasound after birth. We have therefore changed our practice accordingly and no longer routinely followed up such cases.
Personality was a powerful predictor of missing study data in this RCT. Assessing personality could inform efforts to enhance data completion and adjust analyses for bias caused by missing data.
An early, dramatic response to the ketogenic diet is more likely in patients with predominant seizure types other than complex partial. It may also be more likely to occur in children who have infantile spasms. In all other patient demographics and diet parameters, an equal likelihood of similar success was found.
Older adults, particularly women, who attend religious services at least once a week appear to have a survival advantage over those attending services less frequently.
While the indices based on TVV, IVV and LESP are more sensitive and specific, respectively, than any single measurement, the measurement of vector volumes does not add significantly to the diagnosis of GERD.
Proper management of VUR is very important because of its harmful potential effects on kidney function in children. With regard to the issue that most children with grade III and higher VUR had overactive bladder, high-end filling pressure, and other urodynamic disorders in their urodynamic study, it seems that these urodynamic disorders could be the basic cause of reflux.
Although the VO2peak was significantly lower in those patients who developed cardiopulmonary complications, CPX testing is of limited value in predicting postoperative cardiopulmonary morbidity in patients undergoing esophagectomy.
HIE technology improved physicians' access to past clinical information, which appeared to reduce diagnostic test utilization and healthcare costs. The payer was the major beneficiary of HIE cost savings whereas providers paid for the technology. Fair allocation of benefits and costs among stakeholders is needed for wide HIE adoption.
This work contributes to the knowledge of the diets of very active young cyclists. Excessive intake of proteins and fats do not jeopardise their sportive performances. The commonly studied psychological variables in sport, are not determinant of sports achievements of young cyclists; additional work is needed to determine the psychological profile playing a determinant role in success of young cyclists.
The presence of individual patient susceptibility factors that determine the severity of acute mucosal reactions is suggested. A link between severe and prolonged acute reactions and the risk of developing late mucosal reactions that is independent of biological dose, has also been found. Purpose designed prospective studies of these issues are necessary.
Overall, our analysis provides evidence with previous studies that the drug reimbursement price is not the primary driver of increased spending. Rather the introduction of new drugs into the formulary leading to expansion of treatment, expansion and substitution of the new drugs for existing drugs may increase spending. Although the adoption of pharmaceutical innovation is costly, the estimated benefit of adopting pharmaceutical innovation generally far exceeds the cost, indicating that the adoption of pharmaceutical innovation is on the whole worthwhile.
Children with IPs may have a higher frequency of respiratory symptoms. Periodic surveillance should be performed in children with intestinal metaplasia of an IP.
VC ventilation is safe and efficacious in very low birth weight infants and may have advantages when compared with TCPL, especially in smaller infants.
The results of the recurrent pattern analysis suggest that a combined concurrent adjunctive treatment might be promising as a cure for RRP and restoration of vocal function after treatment.
These data suggest that flow abnormalities may interfere with language lateralization assessment with functional MR imaging.
The incidence of CNS involvement in MG is higher than previously reported and is expressed predominantly as a pyramidal syndrome accompanied by optical tract involvement (frequently subclinical). These features bear some resemblance to neuromyelitis optica spectrum disease, supported also by the presence of anti-AQP4 antibodies in 7 of the 14 patients tested. This association may represent a new nosological entity or may indicate that an autoimmune process targeting AQP4 is an integral part of the immunopathogenetic mechanisms in MG.
In patients with PAH, improvement in 6MWD does not reflect benefit in clinical outcomes.
There is a high prevalence of CAM usage in patients with asthma and COPD in Turkey. Hence, becoming familiar with CAM therapy and inquiring about patient practice of CAM as part of the routine medical history will allow the physicians to provide reliable information to their patients on these medical practices.
Although elevated in seriously injured patients, neither markers of activated coagulation nor specific injury patterns are predictive of VTE. Associations with immobilization and obesity suggest that VTE after injury is a systemic hypercoagulable disorder with local manifestations of thrombosis related to lower extremity stasis.
Accredited OBSS appear to be a safe alternative to ASCs and hospitals for cosmetic procedures. Plastic surgeons should continue to triage their patients carefully based on other significant comorbidities that were not measured in this present study. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE 3.
We advise against the routine use of coagulation profiles to predict bleeding risk. A thorough bleeding assessment is more advantageous. Laboratory tests should be tailored according to the patient's history and examination findings.
Despite immunosuppression including chronic steroids, the incidence of wound infections, incisional hernias, and fascial dehiscence is low in kidney recipients. As with other types of surgery, the main risk factors for postoperative complications are obesity, reoperation, and increased age. However, in kidney recipients, use of MMF (vs. azathioprine) is an additional risk factor -one that potentially could be altered, especially in high-risk recipients.
In this sample of depressed nursing home residents treated with mirtazapine orally disintegrating tablets, advanced age, medical illness, and cognitive impairment did not predict response. The findings suggest that these variables need not be viewed as obstacles to treatment.
It has been shown that nonhematooncologic alloimmunized patients are high antibody responders, with a more than 20 times increased risk to form antibodies compared to first-time alloimmunization risk. If extended matching for C, c, E, K, Fy(a), and Jk(a) antigens in the future is considered, this group should be taken into account.
The results indicate that digitized spoken words appear to be an appropriate tool because they permit the study of EEG changes on a millisecond-to-millisecond basis. Apparently, ERPs enable us to study receptive processes in patients with expressive aphasia. Moreover, they appear to be particularly suitable for monitoring the recovery of neural mechanisms responsible for language.
In this retrospective analysis, dichotomising the ABCD Score was overinclusive but highly predictive in identifying patients with TIA at a high short-term risk of stroke. Use of the ABCD Score in the emergency care of patients with TIA is simple, efficient and provides a unique opportunity to prevent stroke in this population of patients.
There is a strong association between nonalcoholic fatty liver and features of the metabolic syndrome, suggesting a simultaneous insulin resistance and decreased sensitivity to leptin.
With careful consideration of the factors discussed, a basic set of questions could be formulated and agreed on, calibrated on suitable populations in different countries, and thereafter used as a bridge across borders to allow comparison of different procedures or meta-analyses of studies performed by different laboratories.
We conclude that mast cell activation may accompany up to 13% of sudden unexpected deaths in adults. Measurement of both tryptase and specific IgE antibody levels in post-mortem sera from persons experiencing sudden, unexpected death may identify a small subset of cases due to clinically unrecognized fatal anaphylaxis, including those due to insect stings.
From the results obtained it can be concluded that the changes in the classical TEG (without addition of PTT-reagent), suggesting an enhanced coagulability, may be caused methodically as they are also found with autologous PPP. On the other hand, a disturbance of the primary hemostasis in hemodilution has to be taken into account from the results seen with the PFA-100 and a number of published data.
Performance measures reflect care processes that both improve care directly and are also markers of elements of health care quality that are otherwise unmeasured. This finding suggests that process measures capture important information about care that is not directly measured, and that these unmeasured effects are in general larger than the measured effects.
Frailty was associated with low levels of well-being. Psychological well-being impaired by a frailty identity crisis may play an important role in defining subjective health in older adults.
The level of understanding of brain death is low among the student body in a four year accredited U.S. medical school. This knowledge gap persists among graduating students as most do not attain an expert understanding of brain death. A more comprehensive brain death curriculum should be implemented in order to adequately equip physicians with this fundamental knowledge.
Our findings suggest that the reduction in cerebellar volumes observed in BD type I might be a trait-related characteristic of this disorder. Additional studies with larger samples and subtypes of this heterogeneous disorder are warranted to determine the possible specificity of this cerebellar finding.
Modification of screening guidelines to include these habits as "high-risk" factors may be indicated.
Switching from insulin glargine vial-and-syringe administration to pen delivery resulted in improved treatment adherence and persistence, with comparable clinical and economic outcomes.
Presence of an attending physician improved and focused patient triage, disposition decisions, and outcomes.
Absence of salivary gland enlargement does not exclude significant vomiting behaviour and clinicians should remain alert to the possibility of undisclosed vomiting.
Six hours of assessment appears adequate to exclude elapid envenoming in asymptomatic patients in South-east Queensland. Evidence in the literature of delayed onset of envenoming in completely asymptomatic patients is difficult to find.
Our results suggest that 40% of children with CIRFs will become symptomatic and 20% will develop stone re-growth over the following 6months. Only one fifth of the fragments will pass spontaneously without any complications. Therefore, the use of the term "CIRF" is not appropriate for postoperative residual fragments in children.
Transnasal endoscope-assisted ESD does not result in improved outcomes when performed by beginners, except for some large tumors. The traction method used by beginners was not superior to proper supervision and advice by an expert during ESD and allowing the expert to perform the procedure when the risk of complications is high or the procedure is delayed.
C1q testing in pretransplant sera with DSA was unable to predict acute antibody-mediated rejection or early graft loss, but the presence of DSA class I compared to DSA only class II did. Despite non-fixing complement in vitro, pretransplant C1q-negative DSA I can mediate rejection and graft loss.
The diagnosis of Whipple's disease should be considered in the presence of a systemic granulomatosis with or without heart involvement. Early diagnosis is important because of effectiveness of antibiotic therapy.
The present results suggest that steroids should not be recommended at any stage in treatment of intubated patients with classic LTB. Prospective studies should evaluate the major risk factors for reintubation: duration of intubation, trauma to the airway at intubation and during ICU stay, and dose and timing of steroids. They should also evaluate whether upper airway disease is present alone or in association with lower airway disease.
One-time attenders are an important and distinct subgroup of screening invitees in this analysis. Their distinct characteristics suggest that transitory factors, such as change in marital status, ill-health, or addressing difficulties through change of residence are important. These distinct characteristics suggest the need for different approaches to increase attendance, among both intermittent attenders and those not attending at all.
Previously inactive teenage girls can adhere to an osteogenic activity program whether supervised or directing their own activity. Longer-term, sustainable initiatives with this age group are needed and might focus on developing personal skills for physical activity.
The correctly placed gastric band is an effective anti-reflux barrier in the short term. Long-term results have to be awaited.
Even in the absence of regular exercise and a weight-loss diet, relatively small amounts of routine physical activity within a normal lifestyle, slight increases in fitness, and less body fatness are associated with a better health-related quality of life and mood.
In conclusion, our study suggests that the CRP with the radiological severity may be used to estimate the severity of acute pancreatitis.
The varicella-zoster virus seroprevalence among new employees was low, posing an important risk to existing employees and patients. Positive or negative history of chickenpox was an unreliable indicator of susceptibility among healthcare workers of different nationalities. Serologic screening of all employees and vaccination of those susceptible was recommended.
The presence of variant histology, particularly non-squamous cell differentiation, and its extent are associated with inferior survival. However, they are not independent predictors of outcomes. The association of variant histology with established predictors of aggressive tumor biology is likely impairing oncological outcomes and thus has to be considered in clinical decision making.
The metabolic syndrome is inferior to established predicting models for either type 2 diabetes or CVD.
The CAMCOG can be used as a cognitive test for patients with low educational level with good accuracy. Patients with higher education showed lower scores than previously reported.
Our data suggest that there may not currently be a simple and sufficiently accurate non-invasive test to replace liver biopsy in renal transplant workup for HCV-positive patients. The risks outweigh the benefits when it comes to using non-invasive markers like the APRI.
Insurance instability is associated with higher use of emergency services and reduced use of nonhospital health care services. Residents of nonmetropolitan areas with unstable or no insurance coverage may be at particular risk for reduced access and use of some health services relative to their counterparts living in metropolitan areas.
the study showed that HBOT decreased acute and late side effect, also improved the quality of life of patients with proctitis radiation.
Serial analysis of chimerism reliably identifies patients at highest risk to relapse. The 3-year EFS of patients with increasing MC without immunotherapy was 0%, by which overt relapse could be prevented in a considerable group of patients.
Considerable heterogeneity in the prevalence of HIV and associated risk behaviors exist among IDUs across Nigeria. Females had higher HIV prevalence among IDUs in five of six states, suggesting a need for targeted interventions for this hidden subgroup. Further research is needed to understand HIV transmission dynamics of IDUs in Nigeria. Community-based opioid substitution therapy and needle exchange programs should be implemented without delay.
There seems to be a facial variant of EF. These observations could not only expand the clinical spectrum of EF but also enlarge the differential diagnosis of facial pain.
Alcohol retailers in the United Kingdom appear to respond to increases in alcohol tax by undershifting their cheaper products (raising prices below the level of the tax increase) and overshifting their more expensive products (raising prices beyond the level of the tax increase). This is likely to impact negatively on tax policy effectiveness, because high-risk groups favour cheaper alcohol and undershifting is likely to produce smaller consumption reductions.
This study provides little evidence of a significant relationship between the prothrombin G20210A gene mutation and pre-eclampsia. Based on our results, we do not recommend testing for the prothrombin G20210A mutation in the routine investigation of women with pre-eclampsia.
This study suggests that CD is associated with urticaria, especially chronic urticaria.
Whereas most of the stroke patients exhibited spasticity when measured both clinically and physiologically, they did not exhibit an increase in resistance to dorsiflexion due to exaggerated action tonic stretch reflexes. It is concluded that it is unlikely that spasticity causes problems in walking after stroke in ambulant patients. Therefore, it seems inappropriate to routinely reduce or inhibit the reflex response to improve functional movement in stroke rehabilitation. Factors other than spasticity should be considered when analysing walking after stroke, so that appropriate treatment is provided to patients.
Increasing adolescents' possible self considerations before orthodontic treatment is likely to increase their own and their parents' posttreatment satisfaction.
Our findings show that residential remoteness might be associated with a higher risk of hypertension in a rural region in Japan.
Immunosuppressive treatment of ADs patients with HCV infection can be safely provided with the integration of CsA.
MRC does not use ionizing radiation and is generally a useful procedure to diagnose NPH and to predict a positive response to shunt treatment; thus, we recommend MRC after routine MRI in patients with the presumed diagnosis of NPH.
The incidence of S-PE in lower-limb DVT is high, but in the absence of symptoms, diagnosis does not appear to be necessary, as there are no short- or long-term clinical or therapeutic consequences.
Participants' ability to work in a recovery-oriented manner seemed to be limited by the way in which services perceived and responded to risk. Participants did not discuss risks arising from stigma, social exclusion, racism, sexism, or iatrogenic effects of psychiatric treatment. Narrow conceptualizations of risk as related to harm and danger seen in this study contribute to a sense of needing to be risk averse. However, the implications for practice included ideas about what might increase the possibilities for adopting recovery approaches across disciplines.
Serology was a poor ulcer test despite an excellent performance for detecting H. pylori. A strategy combining serology and an age threshold with a history of NSAID use to reduce endoscopy workloads may not always be appropriate.
The 2012 Beers criteria detected the highest number of PIMs, and given the scant overlapping with the STOPP criteria, the use of both tools may be seen as complementary.
A&E departments are better equipped with slit lamps 10 years on, and staff are being trained to use them. This has unfortunately not improved the confidence levels in dealing with eye emergencies, reflecting the lack of adequate basic ophthalmic training for A&E SHOs. Recent changes in postgraduate medical training could provide a platform to bring about the changes required.
There was no evidence of an increased risk of HIV infection associated with education as seen in earlier studies. In each city there was some evidence of lower HIV or HSV-2 infection rates and less risky sexual behaviour associated with increased education levels. The most educated may be responding more readily to health education programmes. The challenge is to extend this to the rest of the population.
Intraoperative calcitonin monitoring is not highly accurate in predicting the completeness of surgical resection. In the present series, relying on IO-CT would result in limited resection in about one third of the patients with residual neck disease and in unnecessary lateral neck dissection in about 20 % of the cured patients.
Our data indicate the superiority of prospectively triggered ECG-MDR-CT over MDR-CT for the diagnosis of small pulmonary tumors using a 4-row multidetector CT.
There may be a subpopulation of patients referred for carpal tunnel syndrome who may be adequately evaluated by nerve conduction studies alone. Additional studies will help evaluate whether this is so.
Despite equal access to health care services, differences persist in the size, stage, and grade of breast cancer for Hispanic women compared with NHW women. The results of the study suggest a biologic/genetic basis for these differences.
Health care and service providers interacting with women who may be HIV-positive and/or in abusive relationships should routinely assess for mental health status, especially suicide risk, which may need crisis intervention.
The denervated random local flaps used for the lower lip reconstruction have no functional inferiority when compared to the innervated-pedicled local flaps.
Although alopecia is a well-known adverse event associated with the administration of Hh inhibitors, data associated with the appearance and/or clinical severity of alopecia and the treatment efficacy of Hedgehog inhibitors are limited. The Hedgehog pathway plays an important role in the normal cycling of the hair follicles in adults and, therefore, the pathomechanism of Hedgehog inhibitor-induced alopecia is considered unique for this drug class. Based on the fact that Hh inhibitor resistance is associated with partial reactivation of the Hh pathway, it would not be illogical to suggest that reversal of Hh inhibitor-induced alopecia in patients under treatment with Hh inhibitors could serve as a clinical marker of drug resistance. However, this observation, as reported in this paper, is only limited in two patients and therefore more information is needed in order to assess its actual clinical importance.
These data suggest that serotonin produced by pancreatic endocrine neoplasms may be associated with local fibrosis and stenosis of the pancreatic duct. Clinicians should be aware that small pancreatic endocrine neoplasms can produce pancreatic duct stenosis resulting in ductal dilatation and/or upstream pancreatic atrophy out of proportion to the size of the tumor.
Our results show (i) strong evidence of reduced PLE in patients with SC, and (ii) a trend for reduced SC in patients with PLE. The immunological basis of PLE may therefore confer protection against SC.
Our results underscore the growing importance of transnational networks for understanding Latino immigrant health and the gendered patterns of the associations between social ties, transnational ties, and health risk behaviors.
In carefully selected cases vaginal delivery of triplets may be safe.
Patients with breast carcinoma and decreased number of pathological calcifications post-NAT had higher rates of pathological complete response compared to patients with no change in calcifications; however, a substantial number of patients with complete pathological response had no change in microcalcification distribution with treatment, questioning the need to completely excise all calcifications post-NAT.
These findings add to an emerging literature on how women compare with men on factors related to AA participation and subsequent drinking outcomes across time. Findings have clinical implications for service providers referring clients to such groups.
US-guided arthrocentesis and injection of the knee are superior to anatomic landmark palpation-guided arthrocentesis, resulting in significantly less procedural pain, improved arthrocentesis success, greater synovial fluid yield, more complete joint decompression, and improved clinical outcomes.
We demonstrated for the first time that lower maternal and neonatal vitamin 25-OHD levels were associated with BPD development in preterm infants. However, further studies with larger sample sizes are needed to delineate the possible link between vitamin D deficiency and BPD.
In this retrospective study, a higher incidence of stage IA lung cancers and significantly fewer cases of more advanced disease were observed in patients screened with computed tomography than in those having a chest radiograph. These data suggest that computed tomographic screening may be of value in improving the survival of patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Our study indicates that synchronous and metachronous CRC might represent similar disease entity with different courses.
Internet access and use to obtain health-related information and support is widespread and mostly independent of engagement in various health-risk behaviors. However, those with low fruit/vegetable intake or inadequate sun-protective behaviors may be more difficult to reach with Internet-based interventions. In addition, when developing online health promotions, relevant sociodemographic determinants of Internet use need to be targeted to maximize their impact.
Laparoscopic pyeloplasty was associated with shorter hospital stay, less pain and less blood loss. The efficacy in term of success rate and perioperative complications of laparoscopic pyeloplasty was comparable to that of open pyeloplasty.
Overall, all racial groups significantly improved their dietary pattern over time, but the maintenance of these behaviors were lower among African-American women. More research and larger minority samples are needed to determine the specific factors that improve breast cancer-specific outcomes in diverse populations of survivors.
EHPVO and cirrhosis are the two major causes of PHT in children. However, predominant cause of variceal bleeding is EHPVO. EST is an effective method of treatment in EHPVO.
The temporal coupling of eccrine sweating to intramuscular temperature, combined with a shorter phase delay, was consistent with the presence of thermosensitive elements within skeletal muscles that appear to participate in the modulation of thermal sweating.
County PtP ratios only partially account for rural perceptions that there are or are not enough local physicians. Perceptions of an adequate local physician workforce are also related to how much people value physicians' care and whether they face other barriers to care.
In both countries, acute reperfusion therapy in STEMI was used less often in women than in men. Factors associated with these sex differences appear to differ between older and younger women. Targeted interventions are needed to optimize care for women with STEMI, as well as sex- and age-stratified reporting of quality indicators to assess their effectiveness.
Telemedicine may offer advantages for some teamwork competencies without sacrificing the efficacy of others and may be adopted by intact rounding teams without hindering teamwork.
Acccording to previously published cohort studies a relation may exist between ABO blood groups and cancer of pancreas. In this study we observed that pancreas cancer patients with blood group A have significantly worse overall survival than other blood groups.
The combination of non-enhanced helical CT and DRS assesses both anatomy and function. When NCCT shows no secondary signs of obstruction, NCCT as the sole imaging study performed may be adequate. If there are secondary signs of obstruction on NCCT, DRS can distinguish patients with different degrees of obstruction and together with the clinical course, size, and location of the lithiasis may help in selecting patients who need earlier intervention from those who may be safely observed.
These results indicate that the presence of anti-AQP4 antibody alone in plasma is insufficient to disrupt the BBB.
Parents of adolescents appear to be more likely to keep household firearms stored unsafely, especially with regard to keeping firearms unlocked. This is of concern because most youth firearm injuries happen to adolescents. Firearm injury prevention programs should directly target parents of adolescents to promote safe firearm storage.
In this cohort of Asian persons with diabetes, the risk of AAC was insignificant after routine dilation of pupils for fundus examination. These data substantiate the safety of routine dilation of pupils in Asian patients with diabetes.
Doctors may allow patients input into the sickness certification process for a number of reasons. As yet, we do not know if this helps or hinders the return to work process.
Experimental mouse models are suitable models for the search of new markers for human IBD. As both Gpx2 and Aqp8 are involved in H2O2 metabolism (Gpx2 as a radical scavenger whereas Aqp8 facilitates its diffusion), upregulation of Gpx2 and downregulation of Aqp8 could be a mechanism to defend against severe oxidative stress and indicate that H2O2 is a universal mediator in the inflammatory process in the colon. This provides a focus on homeostasis of the antioxidant pathway and its importance in IBD.
Higher levels of uric acid had protective effects on longitudinal cognitive decline independent of and interactively with CSF AD biomarkers.
Aortic root replacement in the presence of complex active infection is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. We report that the rates of major complications and late mortality were similar among MC, BC, and HG groups in our study.
For the patients with endometrial cancer limited to the disease confined to the uterus in which accurate staging including retroperitoneal lymph node dissection was performed, peritoneal cytology may be an important prognostic factor.
Provided that early and completed debridements of contact points of HVEB were achieved, distally based sural flap is feasible and there is reliable coverage in HVEB even in patients with flap pedicle located in vicinity of the zone of injury.
CAS can be performed in elderly patients without higher risk than in younger patients. But good indications, a meticulous technique, protection devices are mandatory and some technical points must be pointed out to avoid neurological complications and failures.
WHO decision limits for anemia should not be lowered in 80-year-old subjects. "Optimal" Hb concentrations with respect to survival appear to be at least 140 g/L in men and 131 g/L in women. Further research should evaluate whether not only treating anemia, but also increasing Hb by using erythropoietin and hematinics, may improve functional status and survival in the elderly.
Addition of a general HIV educational comment to virology laboratory reports is effective in changing requesting behaviour.
The authors concluded that archers with shoulder impingement syndrome exhibit different kinematics and muscle activity compared to uninjured archers. Therefore, in order to prevent shoulder joint impingement during archery, training is necessary what can make lower trapezius muscle activity increased to decrease the UT/LT ratio.
Future investigation should focus on deciphering the implications of the greater numbers of medications prescribed to elderly renal transplant recipients in terms of maximizing desired health outcomes (e.g., graft survival) and minimizing adverse drug-related experiences (e.g., infection).
CT-angiography sufficiently allows for target vessel determination for CABG. In individual cases, visual assessment of the left main coronary artery and the proximal left anterior descending artery (LAD) via CT-angiography may be superior to conventional angiography. However, while there is no difference in positive predictive targeting value, sensitivity and specificity of conventional angiography is still superior. Also, improvements in the methodology of evaluation and presentation of CT-findings are necessary. Our data suggest that CT-angiography may be used as a clinical alternative to conventional angiography in preoperative assessment for cardiac surgery.
The 35 degrees AO view in the surgical position was superior to the anterior and lateral projections. Therefore, the simple 4-min AO view in the surgical position may entirely reflect the surgeon's perspective and could be used safely alone in the preoperative lymphatic mapping for breast cancer patients.
In our center emergency heart transplantation was associated with only slightly worse results compared with elective transplantations. Both donors and recipients should be carefully selected to improve results.
Although clinicians do not estimate life expectancy with the scientific exactitude of an actuary, the ability to assess the patient in person and assimilate pertinent medical information in a less rigid format yields similar results. Selection of men for definitive treatment of localized prostate cancer should be based on the inherent aggressiveness of the disease and the health of the individual and should not be limited by specific age cutoffs. Populations of men undergoing radical prostatectomy are younger and healthier than those in reported series of watchful waiting for prostate cancer.
Severely impaired cortical transit seems to be a valuable marker of those patients who could benefit from a pyeloplasty, either because of the high probability of postoperative DRF improvement, or because of DRF deterioration in case of an conservative approach. However, a normal cortical transit, as defined in this study, does not exclude the risk of DRF deterioration. Alternatively, the design of this study does not allow excluding the fact that DRF might improve after pyeloplasty despite a normal cortical transit.
The Adams forward-bending test cannot be considered a safe diagnostic criterion for the early detection of scoliosis (especially when it is used as the only screening tool) because it results in an unacceptable number of false-negative findings. For the early detection of scoliosis, a combination of back-shape analysis methods can be safely used with the introduction of cutoff limits for referral being a useful procedure. The incidence of significant scoliosis is low, and its natural history seems to be independent of early detection. The wide-spread use of school scoliosis screening with the use of the forward-bending test must be questioned.
Adding FDG-PET findings to neck US provided no diagnostic benefit. The sensitivity and specificity of FDG-PET in the presurgical evaluation of indeterminate thyroid nodules are too low to recommend FDG-PET routinely.
There is scope for improving the overall quality of economic evaluations of Hib vaccination. Relevance to decision makers may also be increased by addressing local budget constraints and vaccine price. There is a need to better understand the decision process, particularly at the national level, to ensure the role of future economic evaluations as important decision tools in the implementation of new vaccines.
The higher risk of receiving a disability pension among immigrants from developing countries and Eastern Europe than among ethnic Norwegians was largely explained by work factors and level of income. The addition of mental distress and self-reported health to the multivariate model further reduced the risk, although not significantly different from ethnic Norwegians.
Irrespective of which agent was discontinued first there was an increase in cardiac output decrease in oxygenation and a modest acidosis in the first 30-min recovery period. The only significant difference between the groups was in mean arterial blood pressure in the early emergence phase with a greater MAP when N2O had been used until the conclusion of anaesthesia.
Despite reductions in SHS exposure over time, a substantial number of Canadian youth continue to be exposed to SHS in homes and cars. Further effort is required to implement and evaluate policies designed to protect youth from SHS.
In the surgical management of spontaneous pneumothorax, videothoracoscopy is associated with a higher rate of recurrence than OT. This difference might be attributable to differences in the pleurodesis technique rather than differences in the parenchymal resection.
Patient interest in and comprehension of an informed consent form with a detailed explanation of the therapy was high; the caregiver's opinion was still the most valued teaching tool.
Lower serum 25(OH)D level might be associated with higher disease activity in UC patients with mild-to-moderate activity.
Our study brings to light the need for formal training as perquisite to support e-learning that enables smooth transition of the faculty from their traditional teaching methods into blended approach. Our results are anticipated to strengthen the existing e-learning activities of our college and other universities and convincingly adopt e-learning as a viable teaching and learning strategy.
(1) Atrial fibrillation is a common postoperative complication after myocardial revascularization procedures which prolongs ICU stay. (2) The study did not show that the incidence of postoperative AF is influenced by the technique of coronary artery bypass grafting: with or without CPB. (3) The prevalence of postoperative AF increase when CABG is combined with valve replacement.
Moderate MCA atherosclerotic stenosis may be responsible for parent territorial stroke. Novel arterial wall magnetic resonance imaging techniques should now be used to investigate in vivo the hypothesis that moderate MCA stenosis is a possible explanation in patients with nonfatal stroke of unknown cause.
The low concentration of nitric oxide in hospital compressed air improves oxygenation in patients with normal lungs receiving mechanical ventilation.
There is a high risk of ARM node involvement, approximately a quarter, in patients with preoperatively known lymph node metastases from breast cancer. However, it may be safe to preserve a clinically non-suspicious ARM node in patients with a positive SLNB who require a completion ALND. J. Surg. Oncol. 2016;113:726-731. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Selective dorsal rhizotomy significantly improved urgency, frequency, incontinence, and urodynamic bladder capacity at first incontinence in a significant proportion of spastic cerebral palsy children.
Design flaws, lack of adequate labelling and concerns about quality control and health issues indicate that regulators should consider removing ENDS from the market until their safety can be adequately evaluated.
The current findings illustrate complex, nuanced associations between perceived norms, identity-related self-concepts, and risky health behaviors from various domains. Future intervention efforts may be warranted to address both problem alcohol use and HIV-risk engagement among individuals with greater sexual self-concept ambiguity.
Plasma osmolality was found to be a predictor of both in-hospital and long-term all-cause mortality. Hence, plasma osmolality can be used to detect high-risk patients in STEMI.
These findings show economic and clinical value of prophylactic stabilization of metastatic lesions when performed for patients with painful lesions compromising the structural integrity of long bones. Patients sustaining a pathologic fracture may represent a more severe, sicker demographic than patients treated for impending pathologic lesions.
Vascular granulation tissue and posterior annular neo-innervation was observed in the experimentally induced posterolateral annular lesion. IDET delivered at 90C in the sheep consistently heated the posterior annulus and the nucleus to a temperature normally associated with coagulation of nociceptors and collagen contraction. IDET did not denervate the posterior annular lesion. Thermal necrosis was observed within the inner annulus and adjacent nucleus from 6 weeks after IDET. The reported benefits from IDET appear to be related to factors other than denervation and repair.
The data suggest that the prognostic value of the diurnal BP changes is comparable when day and night are defined using large fixed-clock intervals, narrow fixed-clock intervals, or actual time spent in and out of bed.
The findings of the study support the assumption that students can regulate emotions collaboratively as well as individually. The study contributes to our understanding of the social aspects of emotional regulation in collaborative learning contexts.
The quantities of mitomycin-C contained in sponges prepared for glaucoma surgery differed for a given surgeon and between surgeons. Thus, variations in the doses applied to the sclera could account for certain complications due to mitomycin-C. The use of a Schirmer's test graduation improves predictability for the quantity of mitomycin-C applied to the sclera.
HEDIS measures generally reflect cost-effective practices; however, in a number of cases, practices may not be cost effective for certain subgroups. Data quality and availability as well as study perspective remain key challenges in judging cost effectiveness. Opportunities exist to refine existing measures and to develop additional measures, which may promote a more efficient use of societal resources, although more research is needed on whether these measures would also satisfy other desirable attributes of HEDIS.
Narrow-band ultraviolet B home phototherapy was found to be an effective form of maintenance therapy for photoresponsive diseases. It is safe and presents few side effects when patients receive appropriate guidelines, teaching, and follow-ups.
Greater initial disorientation is seen with side-on orientation compared with head-on orientation. This can be overcome with practice.
The NLR is a simple, effective, and practical predictor of MetS in patients with stable COPD. It has potential value in public health practice for management of patients with COPD.
Serum HJV is elevated in HD patients and related predominantly to kidney function and iron metabolism. However, HJV is probably not correlated to inflammation. HJV appears to be a new player in iron metabolism in these patients.
This study revealed that patients attending secondary oral health facility with dentoalveolar abscess were dominantly first time dental clinic attendees and exhibited low awareness of treatments offered by dentists. There is need to further investigate the barriers to preventive visits and to improve of awareness of dental treatment among previous dental clinic attendees.
Most women do not seem to want or need pre-termination counselling therefore policies aimed at mandatory counselling, would be contrary to women's wishes. Counselling should be targeted at women with risk factors for psychological complications post-termination.
Our findings indicate that ultrasound analysis can predict the microstructure of regenerated cartilage.
Hospital wards with more than 5 cardiac arrests per year have a better patient survival rate than those with fewer arrests. This is despite all ward staff receiving the same level of training.
Natural estrogens associated with CPA have no patent deleterious metabolic effect. However, the choice of oral estrogen administration seems to be better among patients with disorders such as hyperandrogenism or obesity with potential hyperinsulinism.
Instrumental variables analysis supports a causal relationship between DGF and both graft failure and mortality.
A small inverse association was found between birth weight and saturated fat intake in children at 43 months of age but this was not present at 7 years of age. This study therefore provides little evidence that birth weight modifies subsequent childhood diet.
These data suggest that the functional benefits of SM transplantation might extend to nonischemic cardiomyopathy.
This analysis supports the hypothesis of a volume-outcome relationship in primary total knee replacement. However, a minimum provider volume that clearly discriminates between good and bad quality of care could not be calculated on the basis of these German quality assurance data.
Systematic post-operative CT scan after unilateral CSDH evacuation could predict hematoma recurrence. We therefore considered it as recommended, to adapt the clinical and radiological follow-up of CSDH patients.
Colonoscopic surveillance may be associated with a decreased risk of death from colorectal cancer in patients with long standing UC.
The data suggest that adding MCA-PSV to CTR in the prediction of homozygous alpha(0)-thalassemia can increase the sensitivity at 12-15 weeks and decrease the false-positive rate at 16-20 weeks' gestation.
Regardless of the wording, it seems that the concept of a global oral health question has the same main determinants.
In contrast to anecdote, use of the internet to access information prior to elective surgery appears low. Its absolute use compared with other sources of information is also low. More traditional forms of communication appear to still pay an important role in this setting.
Biatrial surgical technique, donor age and hypertension were determined as significant predictors of temporary pacemaker insertion in the orthotopic heart transplantation. Atrioventricular block, left bundle branch block, and arrhythmia frequency was significantly less in the bicaval group. In terms of factors affecting morbidity, the bicaval technical results were found superior than biatrial technique.
There are inconsistent relation patterns between stillbirth, area of origin and utilization of prenatal care. Among women from the Mediterranean, increasing utilization of prenatal care may result in lower stillbirth rates.
We have improved the rate of IVC filter retrieval in our institution by development of an IVC filter pathway. Rates of optional IVC filter retrieval in our experience are now higher than previously published figures.
The introduction of the ASM at GH has not significantly altered the rate of NA or PA. The NA rate at GH is comparable to other published UK and Australian series.
FLT showed better overall performance for detecting lymphadenopathy on qualitative assessment within the total nodal population. This notwithstanding, FDG SUV performed better for pathologic discrimination within the visible lymph nodes.
This study provided further evidence of the significant impact of eating disorder features, particularly eating disorder cognitions, on HRQoL. The finding that gender did not moderate the relationships between eating disorder features and HRQoL indicates the importance of investigating these features in both men and women in future research.
We didn't find differences on subjective satisfaction between groups. Even if there are differences n postoperative bleeding, global incidence is very low. In our experience both techniques are valid and safe, so surgeon and parents must jointly make the decision.
The American Association of Anaesthesia score can be used to determine higher risk groups of surgical patients, but clinicians cannot use the score to discriminate between grades 1 and 2. Overall, the discriminatory power of the model was less than acceptable for widespread use.
Ga-DOTANOC PET-CT shows high positive and negative predictive values in patients with suspected NET and can be routinely used for this purpose.
Two-thirds of the patients included in our study actually underwent screening; this rate was lower than expected. The incidence of newly detected infections was low, putting the benefit of a routine preoperative screening for HBV, HCV and HIV into question. From an economic point of view the low detection rate is a strong argument in favour of omitting routine preoperative screening. Screening only those patients with risk factors may be as safe as screening every patient and would help reduce costs.
It is important to understand and support the development of process skills as expressed in task performance in children with spina bifida and to pay attention to both the parent's and the child's opinion when setting goals and plans for interventions.
Neither CVP nor PCWP accurately reflected the status of CBV in adult patients after extended transthoracic esophagectomy.
To our knowledge, this is the first case of angio-oedema localised to the free gingiva. The role of stress in the acute exacerbations of oedema and bone loss is discussed along with the diagnostic pitfalls associated with this case.
Ten wet swallows are sufficient for making a manometric diagnosis, because additional swallows are likely to change the diagnosis in only 2% of patients.
NIMV is effective not only in mild respiratory failure but also with severe forms of COPD patients presenting with severe exacerbation. The determination of the failure criteria of NIMV and the expertise of the team is critical for treatment success.
Larger stone size, higher density, proximal location, and complaints of shivering, fever, and leukocytosis are the most important parameters for predicting invasive management of acute renal colic. Other clinical and radiologic information may be useful as supportive findings but do not predict the choice of patient management.
Progress has been made in decreasing disparities in survival between nHw and minorities in breast cancer, prostate cancer, and NHL. Little progress has been made in reducing disparities for the other studied cancers.
NavX accurately renavigates the lesion line and verifies local potentials. The electro-anatomic activation map accurately identifies gaps in the RF lesion line and no recurrences were found compared with 10% recurrences after standard procedures for typical AFL.
Laparoscopy did not appear to result in underuse of PN. We explain this by suggesting that the PN rate may be influenced by variation in the decision tree itself. Such variation is inherent in complex clinical decision making where EBM guidelines are lacking.
To observe haematological abnormalities, folate deficiency should be profound. Serum folate levels under 8 μg/L (or 18 nm) should be considered as a decision limit for folate depletion because a positive effect on homocysteine was observed. Fasting serum folate concentration should be preferred for assessing folate status. Our results suggest that the need for RBC folate testing is less meaningful.
Porcelain SL brackets were faster to untie and ligate by 22 seconds per bracket, but there were no significant differences in the alignment achieved or discomfort experienced.
Antibody-mediated rejection is a complex and ongoing phenomenon with different phenotypic features. C4d positive predicts worse prognosis. C4d positive [corrected] and DSA can be used as early mortality predictors in patients without signs of graft dysfunction.
The severity of OA at the time of diagnosis does not appear to be influenced by the molecular weight of the causal agent.
RLS patients exhibit a tendency toward hypertension, reduced amplitude of both sympathetic and parasympathetic responses at HUTT, as well as blunted parasympathetic drive to blood pressure changes. These findings, if confirmed by more controlled studies, might support the hypothesis of autonomic nervous system involvement during wakefulness and consequently an enhanced cardiovascular risk in RLS.
An acute GP led service run from within the hospital to provide support to community GPs led to a modest reduction in the number of GP admissions to the MAU, but did not reduce the number of GP admissions to the hospital wards.
This study suggests that there are few benefits for patients with diabetes in having an established regular provider over having a regular place of service.
Non-obese idiopathic LGA-born children have higher AIs than AGA-born counterparts in the absence of IR. WC seems to be a good clinical screening tool in identifying at risk of non-obese LGA children. Further studies are needed to evaluate MS antecedents in idiopathic LGA-born children.
For MMC individuals with motor levels L3-L5, adult ambulatory function cannot be determined from muscle strength in early life, while it to some extend can be predicted for motor levels at or above L2 and at or below S1. The majority of the participants who at the age 5-8 years were community walkers without walking aid kept that function.
There is a large variability in prediction of obstructive CAD using different pre-test probability risk scores in symptomatic women. Logistic regression analysis revealed that oestrogen status and GDM were independently associated with the occurrence of obstructive stenosis on CTCA. The predictive ability of cardiac pre-test probability scores improved significantly with the addition of oestrogen status and GDM.
Serum HMGB1 levels at presentation are not increased and are lower in patients with renal involvement. Relapses are not preceded or accompanied by significant rises in HMGB1 levels and changes in HMGB1 levels are not related to ensuing relapses. Anti-HMGB1 antibodies are present in only a few patients in AAV. In contrast to SLE, HMGB1 is not a useful biomarker in AAV.
Patients with sepsis admitted to the primary ICU and overflow ICU at our institution were managed similarly. Overflowing sepsis patients to non-primary intensive care units may not affect guideline-concordant care delivery or length of stay.
Patient's anxiety level before axillary brachial plexus block is a risk factor of failure, especially in emergency condition. We suggest anesthesiologists to evaluate patient anxiety prior to block performance. A specific anxiolytic treatment may be recommend in some cases.
The results do not support the assumption that developmental language disorders are associated with auditory perception deficits. However, there are indications that auditory memory and time processing are deficient. Thus, training of auditory perception does not appear to be a suitable treatment for language impaired children.
The level of physical activity in daily life has a modest correlation with the classification of COPD severity assessed by the BODE index, reflecting only differences between patients with classified as mild-moderate and severe-very severe COPD.
Patients with a failed kidney allograft initiated dialysis in similar condition to those with native kidney failure. The faster GFR decline may be related to immunosuppressive treatment. Transplant patients needed more frequent evaluations and more hospitalizations before and after dialysis initiation, indicating a higher morbidity rate.
B vitamin status does not influence the risk of overall cognitive dysfunction in ε4 allele affected older adults.
Moderate alcohol drinkers display a more favorable clinical and biological profile, consistent with lower CV risk as compared with nondrinkers and heavy drinkers. Therefore, moderate alcohol consumption may represent a marker of higher social level, superior health status and lower CV risk.
Brain structure T1-weighted SI comparisons are helpful to predict outcome in (near) term neonates with HIE. This finding adds to the current knowledge and clinical practice. If the SI in the posterolateral putamen is less than the SI in the posterior limb of the internal capsule, favorable outcome is very likely, whereas if the SI in the posterolateral putamen is equal to or greater than the SI in the posterior limb of the internal capsule, adverse outcome is very likely. In neonates with HIE grade 2 according to Sarnat and Sarnat, prediction of outcome is substantially improved by using these brain structure T1-weighted SI comparisons.
The Canadian and expanded GLH ranking systems are no more than aids to establishing priorities. They cannot replace clinical judgement because the importance of individual scoring items is heavily influenced by the ranking of other items. Waiting times for surgery are now grossly excessive despite the use of criteria for entry to the waiting list which are very conservative by international standards. There is no equitable or clinically acceptable way to modify priorities to reduce waiting times, and institution of a booking system is impractical.
Cigarette smoking did not increase the recurrence of peptic ulcers after eradication of H. pylori.
An increased IL-18 level is associated with erosive joint disease, but the measurement of IL-18 does not help to distinguish between RA patients and healthy controls.
Patients with IgA nephropathy, crescents, and positive for ANCAs represent a clinical entity with a diverse more exaggerated clinical and histologic picture. However, disease in these patients responded well to aggressive immunosuppressive therapy.
Fetal STV is an important parameter with high sensitivity for antenatal fetal acidosis. This study shows that STV calculations do not correlate with fetal scalp pH measurements during labor, hence are not helpful in identifying fetal acidosis.
Based on our results, we conclude that HBO treatment has the potential to diminish doxorubicin-related hepatotoxicity and improve regeneration in the injured liver.
Glossopharyngeal nerve blocks do not provide a superior route of local anesthetic administration for awake direct laryngoscopy. Two minutes of 2% viscous lidocaine S&G followed by 10% lidocaine spray was the anesthetic route preferred by participants and laryngoscopists.
There is no universal standard for FFP use following major hepatic resection for colorectal metastasis. Our criterion of a prothrombin time of 16-18 seconds is conservative but results only rarely in reoperation for bleeding. Prospective evaluation of a higher threshold for FFP administration, such as an International Normal Ratio of 2.0, should be performed to better define the guidelines for FFP use in patients undergoing major hepatectomy who have normal underlying hepatic parenchyma.
This study demonstrates that little information concerning QoL is elicited during dermatology outpatient consultations.
In patients without structural heart disease, CS direction may be a reliable predictor of IAS orientation, and may serve as a helpful reference for clinicians during invasive electrophysiological procedures. Further study is warranted to clarify the relationship between IAS orientation and heart position.
Reducing pelvic rotation does not enhance reproducibility of the system and is not related to torque production. Further research is required to determine the optimal test setup.
Using current clinical dosimetry, PSPB provides excellent dosimetry compared with 3DCRT with fewer uncertainties compared with IMPT.
Our findings suggest that allergy-related choice of bedding is an important factor in the assessment of the relation between synthetic bedding and asthma symptoms. Ignoring those changes can lead to false-positive risk estimates. Prospective studies that allow to disentangle the temporal sequence of disease, exposure, and change of bedding should help to further clarify this issue.
In the present randomized study targeted to investigate the effect of early nutrition on long-term cardiovascular health, we found that a nutrient-enriched diet increased later blood pressure. These findings support an adverse effect of relative "overnutrition" in infancy on long-term cardiovascular disease risk, have implications for the early origins of cardiovascular disease hypothesis, and do not support the promotion of faster weight gain in infants born small for gestational age.
Delayed surgery after neoadjuvant chemoradiation does not compromise the outcomes of patients with locally advanced SCC of the esophagus. Delaying surgery up to 90 days offers relevant advantages in the clinical management of the patients, can reduce tumor recurrences, and may improve prognosis after complete R0 resection surgery.
PCL release increased the flexion/extension gap ratio on average, but the individual effect could not be predicted. Therefore, we recommend PCL release before the femoral resections are performed, as this step mainly determines the ratio between extension and flexion gap.
Patients' chest area and BMI classes were frequently discordant, potentially leading to overdosing or underdosing when using BMI to select tube potential.
There was a progression of the nodular goitre in the remnant lobe in about one-third of the patients who underwent hemithyroidectomy. However, only 2% of these patients underwent complementary contralateral hemithyroidectomy due to clinical progression in 31 months of follow-up.
Our study suggests that right frontal parafalcine cortex is a sexually dysmorphic area and supports the value of multivoxel MRS as a method able to define spatial biochemical heterogeneity of the cerebral tissue.
Luminometry detection can thus afford reproducible information on intracellular ROS kinetic production using luminol and extracellular ROS detection using lucigenin, simply and at low cost.
The leak test is reliable by the same or different observers regardless of varied clinical experience when using a standardized approach to measuring the leak.
We present two probably related Swedish families with a characteristic and novel clinical syndrome of cerebellar ataxia and sensory polyneuropathy. The study serves as a basis for the mapping of the underlying genetic cause.
Mental health care should be provided on the basis of a negotiation process involving both professionals and service users to ensure effective interventions; every effort should be made by services to implement strategies aiming to increase consensus between staff and patients.
We conclude that elective coronary angioplasty in patients with angina pectoris after non-Q wave myocardial infarction does not lead to a better prognosis than after Q wave myocardial infarction. Thus, management strategies after myocardial infarction should not be based on the absence or presence of Q waves on the electrocardiogram.
T1-weighted coronal imaging of the extracranial head and neck region is demanding. T1-weighted BLADE sequences still have drawbacks in anatomical contrast and lesion detection but offer possibilities to achieve reasonable image quality in difficult cases with a variety of artifacts.
These cost estimates can serve as an important and useful reference source for doctors, insurance companies, health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and policy makers as they try to anticipate the future medical care needs and associated costs for diabetic and hypertensive patients.
This approach may facilitate high quality of PC.
Duodenal infiltration is neither an indicator of unresectability nor an indication to perform Hepato-pancreatoduodenectomy (HPD). In most of these patients, an oncologically adequate R0 resection can be performed with either a duodenal sleeve resection or distal gastrectomy with resection of the first part of the duodenum.
The authors offer several explanations for these findings, including possible benefits associated with emotional and interpersonal forms of support provided by daughters and negative impacts of conflicts arising between parents and resident daughters-in-law.
ETCO2 levels for pulmonary edema/CHF patients differ significantly from those of asthma/COPD patients. However, no single ETCO2 level reliably differentiates between the two disease processes.
Both schizophrenic patients and their relatives show altered task-related deactivation in the medial frontal cortex. This in turn suggests that default mode network dysfunction may function as a trait marker for schizophrenia.
The ability of CSM for separation of consciousness and unconsciousness was comparable to other commercially available EEG-based indices.
Most patients with bowel cancer were not referred on the basis of the two week standard although most fulfilled the referral criteria, which had higher diagnostic yields. The two week standard clinics did not shorten the overall time to treatment or improve the stage of disease because the time lags before referral and after the outpatient appointment are the major causes of delay in the bowel cancer patient's journey.
Implementation and increased use of electronic patient-to-provider messaging was associated with increased use of telephone calls in 2 of the study clinics. While practices are increasingly making the decision of whether to implement a patient portal as part of their system of care, it is important that the motivation behind such a change not be based on the idea that it will alleviate clinical workload.
The authors emphasize, that in case of elderly patients the indication and control of digitalis therapy requires greater precaution and tight doctor-patient cooperation.
The results of our study do not suggest that patients with TN breast cancer should receive systematic nodal adjuvant radiotherapy.
Ki-67 immunocytochemistry can be applied to liquid based cytology. The accuracy and diagnostic indices of the test are good when compared with those of other techniques. As part of a panel of screening procedures, it could be used as an adjunct to liquid based cytology to identify HSIL, and as a surrogate marker of HPV-16 infection.
Tension-free vaginal tape surgery in elderly women is associated with good outcome results; however, the risk of postoperative de novo urge incontinence, as well as age-related morbidity, is increased.
This study concluded that the higher accident risk of the temporary workers might have been due to the less effective experience as well as due to lack of job security inherent in such workers.
The mechanisms causing enhanced nm23-H1 expression in anal canal carcinoma are unknown. Although the level and expression were not correlated with prognosis, activation of nm23-H1 gene might be a prerequisite for oncogenesis in this type of tumor, while an alternate possibility is the modification of cellular characteristics in relation to proliferation and/or differentiation as a consequence of oncogenesis.
French interns appear to learn urological surgical procedures more easily than other European interns. However the scientific training of interns must also be evaluated in order to propose a global assessment system of urology training in Europe.
Public health physicians may be fading out of management. To address this there is a need for development of both public health management training programmes and provision of adequate resources for managerial activities.
The use of sex-specific models appears to improve the accuracy of fetal weight estimation, principally because the optimal set of model coefficients differs for male and female fetuses. The improved accuracy is mainly the result of a decrease in systematic error, as the random error was not affected by the use of such sex-specific models.
In this population, age does not appear to moderate the relationship between depressive symptoms and suicidal behavior. Thus, assessing depressive symptoms as a risk factor is important at all ages in this population.
Prophylactic surgery is safe and effective in preventing variceal bleeding in NCPF but at the cost of high delayed morbidity.
There might not be a benefit in using the lymph node ratio rather than the N category of the TNM system as long as the number of subgroups is not increased. In our consideration, there is no need to change the N categorization of the TNM system to the ln ratio.
This study demonstrates that, in a large series of patients, a safety guidewire was not necessary for routine cases of flexible URS with laser lithotripsy on renal or UPJ stones. Particular cases with complicated anatomy, difficult access, concomitant ureteral stones, simultaneous stone basketing, or bulky stone burden still necessitate use of a safety guidewire because of increased risk of adverse outcomes.
Axial loaded MR imaging demonstrated significantly larger changes in the DCSA in patients with DS compared those with SpS. A significant change in the DCSA was more frequently observed in patients with DS. Axial loaded MR imaging may therefore be a more useful tool to decrease the risk of underestimating the spinal canal narrowing in patients with DS than in those with SpS.
First vaginal delivery at an older age carries an increased risk for postpartum SUI. Stress-incontinent women also had higher prevalence of SUI during pregnancy. This finding implies that the pathophysiologic process of SUI begins during pregnancy, prior to active labor and delivery. Nonetheless, elective cesarean section in these women has a protective effect and lowers the risk of developing postpartum SUI.
The therapeutic effects of HBO2 on subjective tinnitus might be greatly due to psychological mechanisms triggered by the attitude of the patient towards HBO2 therapy prior to the treatment.
Prereconstruction radiation therapy increases the rate of vascular complications in free flap breast reconstruction, the majority of which appear intraoperatively. Although radiation does not hinder the overall success of reconstruction or contribute to postoperative complications, surgeons should be aware that working in a previously irradiated field carries additional technical risk.
Standard assays for PD-L1 expression have yet to be established. The observation of discordance between PD-L1 expression in metastatic sites and primary tumors suggests that prospective biomarker studies should aim to acquire material immediately before treatment initiation rather than archived tissue from resected specimens that might not reflect the current immune-active microenvironment.
We hypothesize that this anatomic anomaly may also constitute a possible unrecognized mechanism in which shoulder pain is generated. Further studies focused at various races and the presence of this peculiarity are now needed to confirm our findings. In addition, unexplained chronic shoulder pain may be explored with vascular studies aimed at identifying the course of the suprascapular artery.
The introduction of the nGMS contract was associated with a rise in the recording of patients with diabetes and the recording of diabetes-related quality indicators. However, women have not benefited equally from the nGMS contract. Strategies are needed to further improve the ascertainment of quality measures and care for women with diabetes, to lessen the potential burden of morbidity amongst female patients in the community.
U.S. state and Federal vital statistics and disease registries should routinely collect and publish socioeconomic data to improve efforts to monitor trends in and reduce social inequalities in health.
These results indicate that traditional outcome measurements underestimate functional deficits in our patients. Monitoring plantar pressure distribution might therefore be a useful tool for assessing foot function in these patients.
The positive response to the prism test does not indicate suppression scotoma in subjects with microtropia and small-angle esotropia because all the esotropic subjects showed the positive response regardless of the amount of deviation or the sensorial adaptation mechanisms. Also, the positive response, seen in the esotropic subjects, did not alter to negative by using the prisms of different powers and directions.
In our study, the influence of adiponectin, TNFalpha and hsCRP upon SI is overwhelmed by other factors in pregnancy. While leptin and SI correlated in pregnancy, it is unclear whether this represents cause or effect. Finally, TNFalpha may exert an inhibitory effect on insulin secretion in GDM, contributing to the associated hyperglycaemia.
Selected patients with aortic stenosis experience satisfactory clinical improvement after aortic valve replacement with modern small-diameter bileaflet prostheses.
Four courses of antracycline based NAC is effective in premenopausal patients with LABC in our environment.
High levels of smoking (>10 cigarettes per day) during pregnancy may be a partial explanation for the apparent secular decline and the geographic differences in sperm counts.
For all tibial rotations, TKA increased laxity, decreased stiffness, and increased tibiofemoral motion during passive flexion but showed little change based on the tibial alignment.
Only five patients with dyspepsia and no alarm symptoms had resectable upper GI malignancies over a four year period. Limiting open access gastroscopy to those with alarm features only would "miss" a small number of patients who have curable upper GI malignancy.
Epistaxis can be relevant after TN-EGD, but can mostly be managed conservatively. TN-EGD is superior to TO-EGD regarding subjective and objective gagging as well as procedural tolerance. Patients who experienced both access routes, prefer TN-EGD. TN-EGD without sedation should be aspired for patient comfort and is recommended for routine use.
Long head of the biceps tenotomy combined with tenodesis does not provide any significant clinical or functional improvement than isolated tenotomy. However, the incidence of the Popeye sign is significantly higher, even though not associated with any functional disfunction.
A routine screening for the 22q11 deletion in older children and adults presenting with an isolated palatal anomaly may not be required. Because other signs related to VCFS such as facial dysmorphism and behavioral or psychiatric disorders may evolve at an older age, young patients should be followed up and reevaluated for additional relevant symptoms that may lead to deletion evaluation. In light of the fact that the current literature is inconsistent, the relative small size of this study and the significant consequences of missed 22q11.2 deletion, more information is needed before definitive recommendations can be made.
CAS is independently associated with increased in-hospital stroke or death (excluding cardiac complications from the composite outcome). In those ≥ 80 years of age, CAS as currently performed may not improve the natural history of asymptomatic carotid stenosis, because in-hospital stroke or death rates following CAS approached 3% in this group.
The demand for this public hospital abortion service exceeds its capacity and economically disadvantaged women are required to seek abortion in private services.
Granulomas were associated with increased extra-intestinal manifestations and perianal disease, a lower body mass index and younger or female patients. There was no correlation between the presence of granulomas and disease progression or recurrence rates during the short follow-up period of this study.
Based on the finding of an association between regional brain flow and body dissatisfaction and ineffectiveness, we argue that neurobiological findings in ED patients may not only reflect emotional and behavioural factors but cognitive-evaluative features as well.
A decreased leptin level might be a useful peripheral marker associated with depressive episodes in the context of bipolar disorder.
Given Canadian guidelines, the treatment of dyslipidemia or hypertension in primary prevention appears economically attractive overall. However, for some groups of individuals, the forecasted future benefits appear to be relatively small given the many years of treatment that are required.
RFA appears to improve survival in patients with end-stage cholangiocarcinoma and pancreatic cancer. In a disease with limited treatment options, this modality may prove to be beneficial compared to stenting alone. Randomized controlled trials and evaluation of quality of life measures should be performed to confirm these findings.
The frequent association of overweight and substance use and the presence of common underlying social factors, highlights the need for an interdisciplinary approach involving individual-focused treatment models as well as public health, social and environmental changes to reduce food- and substances-related problems.
The present study suggests that advanced NSCLC patients with good PS after progression from third-line therapy could be considered as reasonable candidates for fourth-line therapy in clinical practice.
The usefulness of the Wii Fit as a therapy tool with hospitalised older people is limited not only by the small proportion of older people who are able to use it, but by older people's preferences for traditional approaches to therapy. Mainstream media portrayals of the popularity of the Wii Fit with older people may not reflect the true acceptability in the older hospitalised population.
Active follow-up of CKD patients appears to significantly decrease the risk of death or progression to end-stage renal disease and the requirement to start renal replacement therapy.
Percutaneous placement of inferior vena cava filters is therefore an easy, safe and effective prophylaxis in respect of pulmonary embolism if combined with thrombolytic therapy or therapeutic heparinisation.
These results suggest that the duration of pain is not an exclusion criterion for SCS and that similar success rates can be obtained for longstanding pain and pain of more recent onset.
The dynamics through which cardiac cell damage is caused cannot be explained by 'classic' heart disease risk factors alone. Further research is needed to identify precursors of heart disease other than atherosclerosis.
The reuse of single application of PFM should be questioned due to the potential risk of transmitting pathogens. A change to a single use only policy would result in a projected threefold increase in the annual budget for these drops.
The results suggest that completion axillary lymph node dissection may be based on the status of axillary SLN biopsies in clinically node negative patients when intramammary lymph node metastases are identified in the breast specimens.
Cirrhotic patients have increased mortality after TBI and were less likely to undergo operative intervention. New treatment paradigms may be needed to improve outcomes for cirrhotic patients suffering TBI.
Rectal intussusception may be an initial abnormality leading to external prolapse, but this appears to happen infrequently. Long-term observational studies are required to fully understand its natural history.
Anterior lumbar interbody fusion has more adverse biomechanical influence than disc degeneration on the adjacent upper disc and may aggravate the adjacent upper segmental degeneration.
The main finding of this study on children with reflux symptoms is the lack of correlation between symptom severity and esophageal histological grade. The magnitude of intercellular spaces was found not to be related with the clinical score as well.
The diet with 2 g salt/day for pts with HF increased the neurohormonal activation associated to HF progression. The BMI can influence the response to the neurohormonal activation in a low-sodium diet in pts with HF. Further studies to test salt restriction for longer periods are recommended.
Supermarkets and their food sales strategies contribute to changing food consumption habits and nutritional outcomes. Yet the types of outcomes differ by age cohort and initial nutritional status. Simple conclusions on whether supermarkets are good or bad for nutrition and public health are not justified.
Our results for the first time show how non-equal distribution of metabolic load (and associated genotoxic stresses) combined with stress induced telomere shortening can delay aging and minimize mutations.
The TUVP procedure is as effective as TURP with similar morbidity. The advantages of TUVP are that the urethral catheter is withdrawn earlier, hospitalization is shorter, and bleeding is less. Its disadvantage is that tissue cannot be sampled for histologic diagnosis. In our opinion, in order to exploit the advantages of this technique, TUVP should be preferred in elderly patients without any suspicion of prostate cancer for whom bleeding during operation is a source of risk.
Lower gastrointestinal symptoms may be caused by running or the running lifestyle. Upper gastrointestinal symptoms are not due to running alone.
The protection provided by a single MLK-dose against EIB only modestly predicts the effect of regular treatment against EIB in adolescent asthmatics on low-dose inhaled corticosteroids. If used on a daily base, MLK offered clinically significant protection against EIB in two thirds of adolescents suboptimally controlled by low-dose ICS.
Future efforts should focus on bridging the gap between identifying risk factors for unplanned pregnancy and interventions aimed at reducing the incidence in high-risk groups.
Based on this survey study, CTRA had a small influence on perceived fracture risk and treatment recommendations and did not increase interobserver agreement. Further work is required to properly introduce this technique to physicians involved in the care of patients with metastatic lesions. Given the number of preclinical and clinical studies outlining the efficacy of this technique, better education through presentations at seminars/webinars and symposia will be the first step. This should be followed by clinical trials to establish CTRA-based clinical guidelines based on evidence-based medicine. Increased exposure of clinicians to CTRA, including its underlying methodology to study bone structural characteristics, may establish CTRA as a uniform guideline to assess fracture risk.
The results suggest that continuity experiences in office practices are associated with preparation for the pace and types of visits that occur commonly in primary care practice, abilities which previous surveys of residency alumni and employers have found lacking. Some areas may benefit from a formal curriculum which may be implemented in the office practice, at the medical center, or at both sites. Preceptors may benefit from faculty development and continuing medical education that is directed not only at teaching skills but also at content areas which were not addressed in their own residencies.
In genome-wide association analysis of the Simons Simplex Collection sample, reducing phenotypic heterogeneity had at most a modest impact on genetic homogeneity. Our results are based on a relatively small sample, one with greater homogeneity than the entire population; if they apply more broadly, they imply that analysis of subphenotypes is not a productive path forward for discovering genetic risk variants in ASD.
BMI status influences other variables associated with pelvic fracture. Redesign of interior door panels, hardware, armrests, and the center console may be appropriate for motor vehicle manufacturers to consider in prevention of pelvic fracture during nearside impacts.
Motor impulsivity predicted low incidence of severe cardiac events following ACS and the BIS can be used clinically.
In our experience, integration of the US into the navigation system facilitates anatomical understanding. Thus, we feel that this technology is beneficial for neurosurgical routine.
There was no evidence of an excess of males born to women from India in England and Wales. An excess of males were observed in mothers born in South-East Asia, the Middle East and South America. Women born in Africa are less likely to give birth to boys than UK born mothers, an observation that is consistent with previous data.
A large proportion of hospitals are not practising evidence-based medicine in relation to IVU, and we suggest that the practice of patient preparation should be abandoned.
A high Shulman clock-drawing test score indicates the need for oral hygiene assistance, but it is not suitable as a single tool to assess this need. Patients with other disabilities might equally qualify for assistance. Dentures, however, can be cleaned quickly and efficiently independently of patient compliance; therefore, cleaning the patients' dentures should be part of nursing personnel's daily care routine for every patient.
Positive attitudes toward organic foods and other environmentally friendly practices significantly predicted similar behaviors. Student consumers seem to act upon their beliefs.
Given the correct diagnosis, shunt insertion can produce marked improvement in patients with idiopathic NPH syndrome, causing few deaths and few clinically relevant complications.
Our study found that a majority of women did not prefer a female obstetrician. Our results suggest that physician gender is less important to patients than other physician characteristics.
The Uniscale had the same accuracy as the current scale when weighing children. However, for use with adults, we suggest additional studies be conducted with increased training of providers because we found that measurements were influenced by individual variation in use. It is recommended that new versions of mother-child scales be developed that are more user friendly.
The association between low IQ and an increased risk of suicide may be because people with low IQ experience suicidal thoughts for more prolonged periods than those with high IQ or because low IQ increase the likelihood that people experiencing suicidal thoughts act upon them.
Positioning of the lag screw inferior in the head and neck was found to be at least as biomechanically stable as the center-center group although the tip apex distance was greater than 25 mm.
It is hypothesized that because roflumilast (a phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor) has a different mode of action to bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids, it may provide additional benefits when added to these treatments in frequent exacerbators. REACT will be important to determine the role of roflumilast in COPD management. Here, the design and rationale for this important study is described.
No direct causal relationship was established between asymptomatic carriage of Leiden and prothrombin mutation in heterozygous configuration and the occurrence of severe late pregnancy complications. There was no benefit from general LMWH prophylaxis started as early as pregnancy in these women and thus we consider it unnecessary.
Use of the lateral approach achieved reasonable coronal and sagittal correction, as well as improvements in pain and function, in mild scoliotic deformities; however, subsidence was a concern, occurring in 29% of patients. Questions still remain regarding the need for additional supplementation or the use of wider cages to prevent subsidence.
Early treatment of low-risk, localized PCa with PADT does not delay the receipt of subsequent palliative therapies and is associated with an increased use of chemotherapy.
This study describes a new aspect of endocrine-exocrine pancreatic neoplasm association. The frequency of the association of PET and IPMN is too large to be fortuitous. Further studies are needed to understand its mechanism.
Donor, recipient, and transplant differences exist when comparing SPK to DD KA that bias outcomes in favor of SPK and limit conclusions regarding superior graft and patient survival.
The study concludes that third molar surgery is associated with changes in OHQOL. This has implications for understanding the value of third molar surgery from patients' perspectives and in assessing health gain.
Patients with an impending or pathologic fracture from multifocal metastatic sarcoma to a long bone have a dismal prognosis, but they may gain short-term benefit from surgical fixation with the goal of reducing pain and maintaining mobility. Although we have no group for comparison, such as treating with radiotherapy alone or resection and an endoprosthesis, our findings suggest that use of intramedullary nails is helpful for providing fixation that in most instances lasts for the lifetime of patients with multifocal bone metastases from sarcomas.
PGE1 and iloprost enhance muscle blood flow at 4-h reperfusion, though neither abolishes low reflow; PGE2 improved flow at 10 and 120 min but not after 240 min. This study demonstrates a potentially beneficial role for prostaglandins in improving muscle blood flow in skeletal muscle ischaemia-reperfusion injury.
Low-dose aprotinin added to the pump prime does not inhibit the inflammatory response caused by cardiopulmonary bypass, but improves postoperative hemostasis. A potential effect of high-dose aprotinin on inflammatory markers remains to be elucidated.
eNOS gene polymorphism is proved to be an important etiology in microvascular angina (x-syndrome) among hypertensive patients. In addition, the eNOS mutant gene showed a significant increase in isolated HPN and in patients with CAD.
Similarities in physical, individual and group characteristics should be considered before extrapolating psychological findings across settings.
These findings suggest that limited dissection of the obturator node alone may not be sufficient for Japanese men undergoing radical prostatectomy; therefore, we recommend performing standard pelvic lymphadenectomy targeting both the external iliac nodes and the obturator fossa for patients at high-risk of lymph node involvement.
5 mg of fast release melatonin taken at bedtime does not improve the quality of sleep in older people with age-related sleep maintenance problems.
The results indicate that, although this specific intervention carried out on physicians did not provide an additional clinical benefit to patients with knee and/or hip osteoarthritis, an increased awareness of the patient's disease through the use of functionality indexes, as well as the mere fact of being observed, seem to improve patient-reported pain, functionality and HRQoL.
This Web-based diabetes-specific CBT depression treatment is suitable for use in patients with severe mental health problems and those with a less severe clinical profile.
According to our experience, the hemodynamically stable or easily stabilized trauma patient can be admitted in a non-ICU ward with the provision of close monitoring. Splenic injury, especially with multiple-site free intra-abdominal fluid in abdominal computed tomography, carries a high risk for NOM failure. In this series, the main criterion for a laparotomy in a NOM patient was hemodynamic deterioration after a second rapid fluid load.
FDG-PET imaging was found to be a valuable method for an accurate staging in the management of patients with Pancoast tumor. Having surgery and being at an early stage at presentation were found to be significant predictors for survival. Quantitative metabolic parameters may contribute to clarification of operable patient subgroups having an early disease stage with low MTV.
This study detected an important signal in terms of theoretical mechanisms to explaining gambling disorder and gender differences. It has implications for treatment development including relapse prevention.
Significant differences exist in the characteristics of the priority review drugs approved by the FDA and the EMA. Harmonization of the US and European regulatory frameworks may facilitate timely approval of pharmaceutical products.
Efficacy and tolerability of buprenorphine patches was demonstrated in chronic pain patients, regardless of age, supporting the conclusion that no age-related dose adjustment of transdermal buprenorphine is needed. A study limitation is lack of active control but no other opioid was appropriate in elderly patients or this indication.
The EGFR and VEGF expression rates of colon tumors do not predict the survival. In addition, the EGFR expression in the primary tumor was not predictive of metastatic lymph nodes. The prognostic value of EGFR/VEGF staining may be further questioned.
Endoscopic ethmoidectomy and middle meatus antrostomy without cyst detachment yielded similar outcomes with cyst extirpation through the antrostomy. Our treatment should be aimed in restoring ventilation and drainage of the dependent maxillary sinus.
The adaptiveness of a person's defense use in managing affect is important in predicting physician health care costs as well as psychosocial functioning.
Surgery and method (DDUS vs. MRI) do not affect mean flow values. Individual comparison is restricted due to wide range in measurements. Since MRI proves to be more reliable with respect to inter-observer variability, we recommend using mean MRI results in experimental setups.
In a large cohort of patients with Peyronie's disease the presence of sonographically detected sub-tunical calcifications during the initial office evaluation was independently associated with subsequent surgical intervention.
The retinal thicknesses from the Cirrus and from the Spectralis differed by 14 μm with the standard software of the instruments, and by less than 3 μm when analyzed with the same custom-made software, indicating that the major differences between the two SD-OCT systems are due to differences in their built-in software algorithms.
Civil servants should consider developing accountability structures for health and researchers should consider producing and transferring more policy-relevant research.
Prevention messages about blogging need to directly address the risks of interacting with people youth meet online and the risk of online harassment.
Intra-articular bupivacaine injection at different stages of the operation yielded variable VAS scores in the postoperative period. Closing the drain after intra-articular injection resulted in an early onset analgesic effect without shortening the duration.
Contrary to expectations, we did not find any evidence of an altered pain response pattern in infants with proven brain injury in the neonatal period. Although most infants with PBI developed cerebral palsy, these findings suggest that cerebral injury predominantly to the central white matter leaves brainstem responses intact in the neonatal period. Furthermore, it seems that the injured brain of the preterm infant has not yet expressed the identifiable differences in pain display and the functional impairment observed at later ages.
This study stopped before recruitment reached the statistically powered sample size due to difficulty with enrollment and lack of continued funding. In selected population of women presenting to the gynecological clinic with chronic pelvic pain, adhesiolysis in those who have adhesions may be of benefit in terms of improvement of pain and their quality of life.
The A1-B8 haplotype hitchhiking with the C282Y mutation was not associated with a more efficient iron absorption. On the contrary, males with double copies of this haplotype expressed a milder phenotype, possibly an effect of local (environmental and/or genetic) factors.
Our data were similar to those reported in patients implanted with traditional and other designs of high-flexion TKA. We found no increased incidence of premature failure, although a higher than expected incidence of posterior femoral radiolucent lines merit continued observation. Patients with less preoperative motion were more likely to benefit from a high-flexion TKA.
In a population of surviving children who were born at<or =32 weeks' gestational age, variation of the gene that may increase IL-6 synthesis is associated with disabling brain injury but not cognitive development despite association with worse early critical care indices.
Responders also had significant toxicity while non-responders did not show significant toxicity following neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The chemotherapy-induced toxicity was observed to be a cost effective and reliable predictor of response to neo-adjuvant chemotherapy.
The better outcome for bleeding seen in patients in the middle of the BMI spectrum suggests the existence of a "bleeding obesity paradox," which persists after adjustment by confounding factors and exists irrespective of the anticoagulant used.
Following evidence of definitive resistance by genotype testing, a substantial fraction of antiretroviral prescriptions were continued in error leading to an attenuated therapeutic response. These data highlight the need to consider better systems to manage genotype resistance testing data in the clinical setting.
Mastoidotympanoplasty was not found to be superior to tympanoplasty alone over a short term follow-up period. Hence, it may not be necessary to undertake routine mastoid exploration at this stage of disease.
Cross-sectional results show higher rates of absence, more visits to a physician and lower HRQoL in children with central obesity. Each missed day at school implies a hazard to academic achievement and each additional visit to a physician is related to higher health care costs. Thus, the negative impact of central obesity is already measurable in primary school children, which emphasizes the urgent need for early delivery of health promotion and targeted prevention.
We confirm the positive effect of surgery by Ponte osteotomy and posterior spinal fusion on TK and LL in patients with SK. In our experience, pelvic parameters did not change after surgery.
The study demonstrated a potential prognostic value of late recurrence in terms of PFS, OS, and ORR.
We identified GAA and GALC as new promising biomarkers for gut wall integrity in infants with NEC, and report first results on the plasma activity of ABG. The present study supports the hypothesis that the plasma activity of ABG might serve as a marker of intestinal ischemia in NEC. The identification of intestinal ischemia could facilitate early discrimination of infants at risk for NEC from infants with benign gastrointestinal disorders.
It may be useful to delineate syndrome of somatic complaints in the context of depression that is more prevalent among women.
Acoustic signatures in snore signals carry information for OSA diagnosis, and snore-based analysis might potentially be a non-invasive and inexpensive diagnostic approach for mass screening of OSA.
Although DWI is a promising imaging tool that provides valuable diagnostic information in hip AVN, it fails to distinguish between different stages, and therefore is of limited value.
ATI admission rates have increased substantially in the past decade, but the majority of children are discharged after a short stay. PTA admission rates have remained stable. This suggests the severity of throat infection has not increased. Tonsillectomy rates in England have been declining overall but do not appear to be associated with this increasing trend in ATI admissions. The increase most likely reflects changes in primary care and hospital service provision.
This study presents an algorithm to assist the application of NIV, and has demonstrated changes in practice following its introduction. It is proposed that the algorithm is considered for use within services that initiate NIV. Further work is required to explore the effects of staff education and the promotion of ownership.
We demonstrate that HO activity in SSc patients is decreased and show its functional consequences. Since CXCL4 blocks the induction of HO-1 expression, neutralization of CXCL4 in SSc patients could have clinical benefits by diminishing overactivation of immune cells and other anti-inflammatory effects of HO-1.
Knowledge transfer in the New Zealand context appeared to be relatively ad hoc. Options for improving knowledge transfer include formal organisational arrangements, use of knowledge brokers and building communities of practice in different areas.
Clinician awareness of BNP or NT-proBNP levels in ED dyspnea patients does not necessarily improve outcomes. Future ADCHF biomarker trials must assess patient-oriented outcomes in conjunction with validated risk-stratification instruments.
Reduction of IS is probably an effective therapeutic option to clear viremia and prevent BKVN in viremic renal transplant patients.
There may be a correlation between HBV infection and endometrial carcinoma.
Orders for MRI did not decrease after education on the guidelines. Limiting MRI orders to only "appropriate" patients would not have changed the observed results.
Narrow-band imaging with near focus can predict polyp histology (including serrated polyps) accurately in the hands of trained endoscopists. Further studies with larger numbers are required to further validate this practice.
Our findings showed that most patients tolerated compensatory couch motion and that motion sickness should not pose a problem in the investigation of this tumor-tracking method.
This is the first study to identify high VFA and SFA levels as positive predictive biomarkers for patients who receive first-line antiangiogenic agents for metastatic RCC.
The results demonstrate that an endoscopic decompression of the anterior interosseus nerve is possible. Several difficulties occurred: Due to the depth of the surgical approach, especially in case of bulky muscles and very small skin incisions, the view is limited, harboring a higher risk of nerve injury. With more experience and specially designed endoscopes, application of this technique in anterior interosseus nerve compression syndrome might become more feasible.
Measurement of individual intratherapeutic halflife as opposed to an estimate using a standard halflife did not provide improved results concerning the target dose. Retrospectively, the therapeutic outcome on the basis of a measured halflife as compared to a standard halflife did not significantly improve. In addition, no influence of antithyroid medication on therapy success was found.
We commonly work in orthogonal systems. Within these systems, it is possible to make a uniplanar correction by moving perpendicular to one plane or radiographic view. The ideal views to image the safe zone for iliosacral screw placement do not create an orthogonal system. When this average angle arc is placed on a graphic model of the pelvis, it becomes clear that the plane of the radiographic beam of the ideal inlet view is collinear with the anterior aspect of the upper two sacral bodies. The outlet view is oblique to the upper sacral bodies. Surgeons must keep this in mind when using fluoroscopic views to insert iliosacral screws.
MDCT with VB and axial/MPR images provide equally valuable information in children with suspected foreign-body aspiration and prevent unnecessary conventional bronchoscopic examinations. However, VB increases total examination time and cost, and it does not provide additional information over MPR images in the evaluation of foreign-body aspiration.
Future studies are needed to identify functional assessments, neurophysiologic techniques, and imaging assessments more apt to distinguish differences following so-called "mild" traumatic brain injury in preclinical models and determine whether these models are truly studying concussive or subconcussive injury. These studies are needed not only to understand the mechanism of injury and production of subsequent deficits, but also to rigorously evaluate potential therapeutic agents.
Internet information on pediatric surgery varies significantly in quality. Lay people own most websites targeted at the lay audience, and the information may not reflect the opinions of most pediatric surgeons. Increasing use of the Internet by parents seeking medical information warrants an organized approach to ensure complete and accurate information online.
This study is Important Insofar as it simultaneously evaluated FMS and FBSS groups in the presence of a control group. The results suggest that FMS and FBSS, currently treated as two different diagnostic categories in general medical practice, may be evaluated under the single heading of FSS.
PTSD symptoms are strongly linked to TMD pain. This association could be partially explained by genetic vulnerability to both conditions but is not related to the presence of CWP. Future research is needed to understand the temporal association of PTSD and TMD pain and the genetic and physiological underpinnings of this relationship.
Short-term treatment of BDL rats with norfloxacin does not change hyperdynamic circulation or vascular contractility, despite reduction of PKG activity.
The Collaborative process delivered some real improvements in the systems of care for people with long-term conditions and a change in culture among participating practices. The findings suggest that by strengthening facilitation processes, improving access to comprehensive population audit tools and lengthening the time frame, the process has the potential to make significant improvements in practice. Other organisations should consider this approach when investigating quality improvement programmes.
At least some MDD patients responding to duloxetine might exhibit a peculiar ERG pattern, hypothetically indicating a specific biological background. If confirmed by larger-sampled studies, these results might shed further light in the understanding of the biological determinants of different subtypes of depression, ideally showing alternative patterns of response upon different treatment interventions.
CLAU is effective in treating limbal deficiency. The concurrent AMT does not add benefits in this rabbit model of chemical burns.
Our findings suggest that pediatricians and health care providers may want to consider discussing dietary intake and physical activity with new parents to identify ways to engage in healthful behaviors given the daily demands of parenthood, both to improve parents' own health and to help them model healthful behavior for their children.
A more complete investigation, incorporating socio-demographic factors, is warranted to understand the effects of morbid obesity and race on endometrial cancer.
Although we found significant differences in patterns of muscle bulk and strength between groups of UNE patients with different UNE pathophysiologies, in the majority of arms, neurologic examination could not reliably predict UNE pathophysiology.
Our results suggest that there may be a biological effect of very young maternal age, affecting foremost very preterm birth.
Both the VR and box trainer are effective in the acquisition of laparoscopic skills.
Cumulative environmental changes are fairly effective in promoting smoking cessation, and may yield similar smoking cessation rates as a health education intervention reaching all smokers regardless of their willingness to quit smoking.
Prophylactic amiodarone reduced early atrial arrhythmia recurrence. These results are consistent with catheter AF ablation findings and should inform recommendations for prophylactic class I/III AAD after surgical AF ablation, regardless of discharge rhythm status. As previously recommended, monitoring for side effects and amiodarone discontinuation by 3 months, for patients in sinus rhythm, is warranted.
Because the diagnostic performance of dynamic gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging in the evaluation of scaphoid viability was inferior to that of a standard MR imaging protocol, dynamic acquisition may not be needed in patients with nonunion of scaphoid fractures.
Regulation of TG2 directly influences the level of active TGF-β1, and thus, TG inhibition may exert a renoprotective effect by targeting not only a direct extracellular matrix deposition but also TGF-β1 activation and recruitment.
The use of telomerase or hTERT as diagnostic markers for gastric cancer may require further studies.
When combined with elevated TSH levels, free or total T4 determinations are equally sensitive to identify women with SCH who are at increased risk for preterm birth and placental abruption when compared with euthyroid women.
Smokers with COPD differ from smokers without COPD on several factors which are associated with tobacco smoking and quitting. Taking into account these differences may help to increase the effectiveness of smoking cessation treatments for the specific group of smokers with COPD.
People prefer receiving eHealth interventions on the mobile devices they are most familiar with. These findings have important implications that should be considered when developing eHealth interventions, and demonstrates that eHealth interventions should be delivered using multiple platforms simultaneously to optimally cater for as many people as possible.
Women adherent to mammography and cervical cancer screening guidelines were significantly more likely to undergo colorectal cancer screening than those who were not adherent, although colorectal cancer acceptance in the adherent group was still suboptimal. Because psychological barriers to colorectal cancer screening exist, non-colorectal cancer screening visits that women already readily accept potentially represent a setting (or "teachable moment") for the delivery of education and behavior-related interventions aimed at reducing the burden of colorectal cancer.
Insulin administration does not impact fluid and protein extravasation significantly in animals undergoing cooling and prolonged hypothermia.
Inpatient hospital costs differ significantly for IBD patients with and without gastrointestinal infections, especially in ulcerative colitis, when care was provided in a single university hospital.
Antichlamydial antibodies in tears were seen significantly more often in patients with conjunctivitis than in those with urethritis (P<or = 0.05). Antichlamydial IgG was found only in tears of patients with conjunctivitis. Therefore, the authors conclude that the detection of antichlamydial IgG in the tears might be helpful for diagnosis in patients with suspected chlamydial conjunctivitis who have antigen-negative conjunctival swabs.
A history of chemotherapy-induced nausea vomiting was a strong predictor for PONV and should be investigated as an added risk factor for PONV in the preoperative period of oncology surgery in prospective studies.
Among patients with mild- to moderate-risk LQTS, we found a prevalence of ADHD similar to that in the general population, which can be treated effectively and safely with stimulant therapy. Physicians should find reassurance in the low adverse event rate and should weigh the potential effects of suboptimal treatment of ADHD with the theoretical proarrhythmic risk from stimulant medications.
Morphologic changes associated with normal aging are clearly different from those seen with AD.
All palpable, asymptomatic, anterior chest wall lesions were benign and usually related to normal variations in the bone or cartilage of the chest wall. The low yield of cross-sectional imaging performed for evaluation of these asymptomatic "bumps" should be considered when decisions are made with regard to imaging.
No clear recommendation exists regarding post-operative mammography before adjuvant radiotherapy. In our experience, this strategy allowed for the detection of gross disease persistence after surgery which was not appreciated at clinical examination in 1 case out of 201. In this patient, adjuvant radiotherapy up to a total dose of 50 Gy would have been inadequate. Given the low cost of mammography, further investigation about its role in pre-radiotherapy evaluation is warranted.
The new measure of FSD had good evidence of reliability and measurement invariance, but there were inconsistent associations of FSD with youth physical activity.
Our results suggest that the major common loci associated with MI risk do not have effects of similar magnitude on overall IS but do not preclude moderate associations restricted to specific IS subtypes. Disparate mechanisms may be critical in the development of acute ischemic coronary and cerebrovascular events.
Patients with low testosterone level were prone to higher postoperative complications, which was evident in both sexes. However, further studies are necessary to support this result.
Sex did not significantly influence the results of the in-service examination or the written board examination. Institution of training is the strongest influence on the results of the in-service examination.
Although the diagnosis of detrusor instability may be increased by ambulatory urodynamics, this does not always translate into more effective treatment. Ambulatory urodynamic testing does not yet result in clinical improvements in diagnosis and treatment.
Puberty does not seem to play a major role in weight gain in girls with TS since the majority of the increases in BMI-SDS occurred before puberty. However, late puberty induction seems to decrease the risk of weight gain.
In the absence of high-dose PPI, especially in patients at very high risk (eg, active bleeding), routine second-look endoscopy appears effective in these selected patients with PUB. However, the generalizability of these results to the era of high-dose PPI and otherwise unselected patients with high-risk stigmata is unclear.
This study describes lay understanding and management of colic among a population of horse-owners from the North-West of the UK. The information may serve as a basis upon which to tailor existing programmes designed to educate owners about colic management strategies, and may inform veterinarians' interactions with horse-owners.
These results suggest that recommendations of higher levels of physical activity (EE of 2500 kcal/wk) promote long-term weight loss better than do conventional recommendations.
A large proportion of ENT surgeons in the UK responded to the questionnaire. They were unaware of proposals to change the current convention of address for surgeons. A significant number of those responding were in favour of retaining the current convention. The small proportion of female respondents indicated a preference for being addressed as 'doctor'.
UDCA at 600 mg/day plus bezafibrate at 400 mg/day may be considered as a new therapeutic option for patients with PBC.
Most proximal aortic necks remain stable, but approximately 20% of necks increase in diameter by 2 years. Smaller necks dilate more often than larger ones. This effect is independent from the frequent oversizing of grafts in smaller necks. The integrity of the repair remains good at 3 years of follow-up.
Honorary coauthorship remains prevalent in the medical literature, even among highly published authors, and has the potential to negatively affect patient care. Respondents believed that a number of possible negative consequences of this phenomenon exist for honorary authors, their coauthors, and patients. Efforts to understand the true influence of honorary authorship on patient care may help further curb this practice in the literature.
A moderate postoperative elevation of CRP values is not a general contraindication for discharge; however, postoperative determination of CRP serum values after appendectomy might be an effective predictor for complications and should therefore be measured in the clinical routine.
Significant associations were not observed among vitamin D, depressive symptoms, and suicidal ideation in Korean adults. Further studies are warranted to gain a better understanding of the association among vitamin D, depressive symptoms, and suicidal ideation.
Our results suggest that a global restriction of visual scanpaths is specific to schizophrenic psychosis and might be a trait marker for this disorder, whereas scanpath abnormalities in affective disorder might instead reflect severe state-based (or discrete) attentional disturbances.
In OPCAB, the female gender is not an independent predictor of MINAO, MAJAO, or PLOS.
Perceptions of having a highly strenuous job may elicit mistrustful and cynical attitudes in employees, which in turn may lead to mental health problems.
M-mode and 2-dimensional echocardiography images are subject to the illusion of myocardial thickening resulting from out-of-plane translation. Analysis of tissue Doppler V avoids such error by accurately measuring V components and VG, and it has the potential to improve assessment of left ventricular function.
TWOC was more successful in males treated with double dose alpha-blockers, and the subsequent need for re-catheterization was also reduced. The side-effect profiles were similar in the single and double dose alpha-blocker groups and were consistent with the known pharmacology. These results state that double dose alpha-blocker treatment can be recommended for treating males after catheterization for AUR, which may reduce the need for re-catheterization.
Transcutaneous pressure of CO2 was lower in patients with PAH. Transcutaneous pressure of O2 over inspired fraction of O2 ratio was inversely associated with severity of disease in patients with PAH.
Based on these data, the IVC and aortic measurements by BUS are not reliable indicators of intravascular volume (as determined by CVP) in acutely ill children.
In addition to the expected factors like advancing age, female gender, and increasing comorbidity index, open compared to laparoscopic technique for colectomy is associated with an increased likelihood of discharge to skilled care facilities. When feasible, the laparoscopic technique should be considered as an option, especially in the elderly patients who require colon resection, because it may reduce their likelihood of discharge to a skilled care facility.
A negative MRSA nasal screen indicates with near certainty the absence of MRSA as part of an IAI. In the setting of a recent screen, empiric vancomycin can be withheld. Further, rapid MRSA nasal screening could be used to forego or to discontinue vancomycin therapy rapidly in the setting of IAI. This change in empiric antibiotic management of IAI may lead to decreased morbidity, reduction in cost, and a decrease in bacterial resistance.
This study showed that most cases with geometric changes caused by atelectasis could be captured by ITPD, however for other causes ITPD is not sensitive enough to detect the clinically relevant changes and no predictive power of ITPD was found.
There are inter-group differences regarding the need for care. The more severely disabled clients are mainly in the non-ambulatory group. But the principles governing the need for care are very similar in both groups. Thus, a uniform assessment procedure with regard to individual patient disability is justified. From the viewpoint of quality control, the results are reassuring.
In some cases of affective disorders, a "cognitive residual syndrome" persists which is rather part of the disease than pharmacotherapy-associated.
Both type 1 and type 2 diabetics showed significantly decreased flicker-induced arterial dilation as a sign of endothelial dysfunction in comparison to healthy controls. With increasing stage of the diabetic retinopathy dilation of the retinal arterioles decreased significantly. Diabetics without retinopathy already showed decreased flicker-induced reactions in comparison to healthy controls. Measurement of arterial flicker response may be useful for prognostic approaches in the case diabetes care.
LHM can be performed safely as a day case procedure. Complication rates are low, with only a small proportion of patients requiring endoscopic treatment for symptom recurrence within 1 year.
Endoscopic polypectomy is a safe and effective method of treating large colorectal polyps.
Our study suggests that in non-invasively ventilated patients for a chronic respiratory failure, the incidence of patient-ventilator asynchronies was relatively high, but did not correlate with any parameters of respiratory mechanics or underlying disease.
Researchers of this study believe that more distinctive decisions need to be taken while identifying patients for surgery in unilateral diaphragm eventrations, especially in the adult patient group; surgical option should be used for cases in which the eventrated diaphragm results in mediastinal shift and respiratory failure.
Remuneration appears to affect GPs' decisions about how they provide consultations, especially among GPs with relatively small patient lists. This role is, however, small compared to other factors such as patient characteristics.
Documentation depth has an important influence on the calculated revenue of surgical therapy based on AR-DRG system. The quality and depth of the documentation is not, in itself, sufficient. In order to be really effective, it requires the highest degree of professionalism from hospital staff.
Lower rates of HPV vaccination among African-American females do not appear to be explained by differential access to health care. More research is necessary to elucidate factors contributing to HPV vaccination in this population.
The results suggest that successful intensive phototherapy without exchange transfusion in otherwise healthy term newborn infants with marked hyperbilirubinaemia (20-24 mg dl(-1), 342-410 micromol l(-1)) might not increase the risk of bilirubin brain injury and that the conventional limit of 20 mg dl(-1) (342 micromol l(-1)) could be changed to 22-24 mg dl(-1) (376-410 micromol l(-1)) for healthy term infants in Turkey. These limits, however, address only infants who do not have haemolytic disease, and the data are not sufficient to draw conclusions on the safety of even higher bilirubin levels (i.e.>24 mg dl(-1), 410 micromol l(-1)) in this population.
Fluoroscopically-guided anesthetic injections of the supposed painful foot-ankle joint seem not to be indicative for a successful outcome of an arthrodesis of the affected joint. However, the sole occurrence of surgery shows a significant difference in VAS and FFI scores, where conservative treatment does not. The local hospital review board granted permission for this study. Ethical approval was not required for this study.
We conclude that neither hypercorticosteronaemia nor hyperinsulinaemia are sufficient to cause the changes in GR expression in dex-programmed rats, implying that these changes may be primary in determining the programmed insulin resistant phenotype. Normalisation of GR expression by metformin may be important in the mode of action of this anti-diabetic agent and may be especially useful to reverse-programmed up-regulation of GR.
Vacuum cups allow sonohysterography to be correctly performed. As they are inexpensive, easy to use, better tolerated by the patients and more helpful for visualisation of the lower third of the uterine cavity, vacuum cups should be considered a serious alternative to standard catheters in the performance of SHG.
In a lung model with varying mechanics, ASV is better able to prevent the potential damaging effects of excessive PP (greater than 28 cm H2O) than a fixed tidal volume of 6 ml/kg by automatically adjusting airway pressure, resulting in a decreased tidal volume.
The significant extra morbidity experienced in the first few months by all never-breastfed infants and at all times by HIV-infected infants who are not breastfed needs to be considered in all decisions by mothers, health workers and policy makers so as not to offset any gains achieved by decreasing HIV transmission through avoiding breastfeeding.
The age-related differences in BMC were found to be independent of the ageing of SM mass in the arm and trunk region. However, differences in BMC measures of the leg and whole body were found to correspond to age-related decline of SM mass in postmenopausal women.
Although several hepatic arteries may supply the potential allograft in LRLT, it is not always necessary to reconstruct all of them.
Our research documents for the first time that self-reported numeracy is related to perceptions of health, whereas objective numeracy is related to actual health, laying the groundwork for future research on the effect of numeracy on health outcomes.
Physicians who are fluent in Spanish or an Asian language are more likely to practice in geographic areas where their potential patients speak the corresponding language.
To optimize nasal patency and improve surgical access, septoplasty is commonly performed during ESS. Based on the results of this study, concurrent septoplasty does not appear to affect CRS-specific HRQoL or symptom outcomes and does not function as a confounding factor in HRQoL improvement.
Dynamic CT provided insight into the abdominal aorta pathophysiology. Identifying patients with higher infrarenal distensibility could change selection of graft size to improve proximal fixation.
The vast majority of studies on gender-associated differences in quality of life compare male and female oncological patients and neglect the issue of the disease-specificity of such differences. Our study revealed that women and men suffering from colorectal cancer scored differently across many aspects of quality of life, but with the exception of diarrhea, these differences were also found in the general population, i.e. they indicated no gender-specific reaction to disease.
The results of this study suggested that LGA infants of mothers with gestational diabetes mellitus were at a greater risk for hypoglycemia and polycythemia in the early neonatal period than LGA infants of nondiabetic mothers.
CCT correlated with disease severity: the more advanced the disease, the thinner the cornea. Initial maximal IOP did not predict disease severity, but it was lower in the more severe cases after treatment, possibly representing a more aggressive treatment protocol.
We found a relationship between response rate and both median and 1-year survival in NSCLC. This information may help oncologists estimate how an NSCLC chemotherapy regimen with a given response rate can, on average, impact survival relative to supportive care alone.
According to our results, LigaSure could be used to perform laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy with reduction of staple-line bleeding and, when reinforced with a running suture, it achieves a strength that approaches that of staples plus oversewing.
Our results suggest that there is no global relationship between job strain and BP levels. However our methodology revealed a significant association between job strain and work site BP in a predominantly male subgroup of newly diagnosed hypertensive subjects exposed to high job strain.
The present study explores the impact of industry-wide changes in sterilization practices for polyethylene. We found lower oxidation and oxidation potential in the conventional acetabular liners and tibial inserts that had been gamma sterilized in inert gas as compared with the historical components that had been gamma sterilized in air. However, we also found strong evidence that conventional components undergo mechanisms of in vivo oxidation similar to those observed following gamma irradiation in air. In addition, gamma sterilization in inert gas did not provide polyethylene with a significant improvement in terms of wear resistance as compared with gamma sterilization in air, except for a lower incidence of delamination in the first decade of implantation for tibial inserts.
Following intracerebral haemorrhage, patients were less likely to be admitted to an acute stroke unit and receive allied health interventions. Admission to stroke units improved the likelihood of being independent at days 7-10 and, therefore, more should be done to encourage evidence-based care for intracerebral haemorrhage.
This study supports the saying that 'practice makes perfect'. The knowledge and experience of the surgeons and the hospital management team are equally important in the supply of health services to patients with varying severity of illness, and are needed to maintain the competitive position of a hospital.
Despite adequate and durable reflux control after fundoplication in patients with chronic GORD, no change was found in oesophageal motor function with time. The higher contraction amplitude and decreased frequency of failed primary peristalsis seen in patients having a total fundic wrap were thus most likely due to a mechanical outflow obstruction in the gastro-oesophageal junction. These results could therefore be interpreted in favour of the hypothesis that GORD is pathogenetically linked to a primary defect in oesophageal motor function.
Severe food insecurity with hunger was associated with reduced odds of condom use and increased odds of itchy vaginal discharge, which is potentially indicative of sexually transmitted infection, among sexually active women in Brazil. Interventions targeting food insecurity may have beneficial implications for HIV prevention in resource-limited settings.
Although the present study has considerable limitations, the results suggest that high doses of epinephrine do not improve survival in cardiorespiratory arrest in children.
The coexistence of PKD and nonkinesigenic dyskinesia in several patients confirms the earlier described presence of intermediary forms, nonrepresented in the current classification of paroxysmal dyskinesias. Our study results suggest channel dysfunction and basal ganglia involvement in the pathophysiology of PKD.
In cases of irreversible intestinal graft dysfunction, isolated allograft enterectomy successfully provides recovery from comorbidities as a lifesaving procedure and does not compromise outcomes of retransplantation.
Arcitumomab inclusion in intensive surveillance of patients with resected rectal cancer can disclose tumor recurrence at a stage that allowed surgical salvage therapy in 37.5% of the 16 patients with recurrence who had second-look surgery, and in 19% the patients were free of disease during longterm followup. This pilot study suggests that a randomized prospective trial comparing standard surveillance procedures to the use of CEA imaging added thereto should be undertaken.
The results obtained in this study show that the activity pattern of the leg muscles is specific to a given patient, and the dependence of the kinematics pathology on the abnormal activation pattern is not a direct one.
The samples transported from the hospitals far from the laboratory need better storage and shipping procedure to avoid high false positive rate, which leads to unnecessary invasive prenatal diagnosis procedure.
These initial findings suggest that computerized cognitive training can improve cognitive function and has a beneficial carryover effect to certain aspects of mobility in patients with PD. Additional studies are required to replicate these findings and more fully assess the underlying mechanisms. Nonetheless, the present results underscore the motor-cognitive link in PD and suggest that computerized cognitive training may be applied as a therapeutic option to enhance mobility in patients with PD.
Tooth brushing with toothpaste and applying CHG 0.12% solution may be an effective oral care protocol to reduce the VAP rate in patients in PCUs with tracheostomies who are being mechanically ventilated.
The overall intra- and interrater reliability of DU grading did not significantly improve with the clinical context. Agreement between patients and rheumatologists was poor.
Targeted delayed scanning at CT urography yielded no additional ureteral tumors and resulted in additional radiation exposure.
Our study failed to demonstrate any maternal or neonatal benefit to a policy of maternal posturing for the management of OP position during labor.
Both cortisol/corticosterone and aldosterone accumulate in the cardiac interstitium. The presence of HSD11B2 and mineralocorticoid receptors/glucocorticoid receptors at cardiac tissue sites allows both steroids to exert their effects via separate mechanisms.
Despite the small number of studied patients, the endovascular procedure for chronic type B aortic dissections does not appear to be an option for the treatment of these patients.
Joint consultations enabled PCPs to shift away from a dichotomous view of somatic versus mental health problems and their management, and towards a more integrated view.
There was no correlation between the DRE, biopsy findings and pathological staging. The DRE did not contribute to managing patients with prostate cancer, but this does not mean that there is no longer a place for the DRE in assessing the urological patient. If patients are appropriately counselled before PSA testing, a DRE may not be essential for patients with a PSA level of 2.5-10 ng/mL.
The crepitus test has a favorable sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV to assess the integrity of the rotator cuff and may be a useful examination in the clinical diagnosis of a rotator cuff tear.
cagA-positive patients were characterized: first, for higher scores for gastritis, activity and atrophic and metaplastic lesions; and second for greater oxidative DNA damage overall, at younger age and in the presence of multifocal atrophy. This setting may represent a cancer-prone biological context.
Although the improvement in test scores was significant and did correlate with the postgraduate educational material read, it was modest. This finding raises significant concerns about the usefulness of this format for graduate medical education.
A practice-based intervention that improved quality of care for targeted conditions by an absolute 15% change did not affect measurable aspects of care on a broad set of masked quality measures encompassing 9 other conditions.
Time to treatment for patients with CRC in southern Netherlands did not shorten between 2005 and 2008. The time to treatment should be reduced to meet the advice of the Dutch Cancer Society.
When combining different measures, routine data is a valuable tool in evaluating organizational change initiatives. However, use in future evaluations would require consistent benchmarking of routine data.
With deployment of the GFX stent, a thicker neointima develops within the stent. Stent configuration may affect clinical outcomes.
Controlling for patient case mix, there was no survival difference at one year between those who received Novacor versus HeartMate LVAD. At five years, a Novacor bridge to transplant patient on average had statistically significantly lower survival than HeartMate recipients. No difference in infection and rejection were observed.
Alcohol use/misuse is a substantial problem among injured adolescents regardless of severity or mechanism of injury. ED physicians should consider screening/intervention or primary prevention of alcohol problems for all injured adolescents.
With increasing age, men and women with heart failure were less likely to have undergone echocardiography or to have received an ACE inhibitor. When account was taken of age, there were no statistically significant sex differences in management; however, because of the demographic distribution of heart failure, women are disproportionately affected by age differences in management. Clinical trials, physician practice, and service developments in heart failure have neglected older people. This balance should be redressed.
LC can be performed safely even in non-teaching rural hospitals of a developing country provided proper equipment is available and the surgeons and other team members are well trained in the procedure. It is stressed that IOC is not essential to prevent biliary tract injuries and missed CBD stones. The costs to the patient and the hospital can be minimized by using reusable instruments, intracorporeal sutures, and condoms instead of titanium clips and endobags.
The usage of mupirocin for nasal decontamination before open-heart surgery reduces the incidence of the sternal wound infection, and does not seem to affect the frequency of cutaneous infections of the lower limbs nor pneumonia after this surgery.
Doses over 6 units/kg bw injected into the gastroc-soleus muscle do not necessarily yield superior results compared with lower doses.
Pulse oximetry readings reflect fetal oxygenation at birth.
Wheeze is common in children with DS. This is likely to be related to the factors specific for DS and probably unrelated to asthma.
Use of continuous care on the day before death is associated with a significant reduction in the use of inpatient care on the last day of life, particularly when patients are cared for by a spouse.
Depending on the type of birth defect, foreign-born Hispanic mothers might be at higher or lower risk of delivering babies with the defects. The differences might reflect variations in predisposition, cultural norms, behavioral characteristics, and/or ascertainment of the birth defects.
CPS values may highlight process-outcome relationships for patients with colorectal cancer in addition to evaluating quality of care performance.
Our results suggest that in future studies on tumor markers, a group of healthy subjects should be used as a reference population and ROC curves should be used to obtain the optimum cut-offs.
The present study showed that the severity of inferior rectus muscle displacement is the most important independent predictive radiologic factor in the treatment decision-making process for pure BOFs. This systematic computed tomographic assessment is a valuable tool for a better understanding of BOF management overall. Further studies are needed to establish its clinical relevance.
We do not recommend utilization of DCD liver grafts for LR if a candidate recipient has moderate to high MELD score.
Instrumental support was generally protective against worsening performance on instrumental abilities of daily living among elderly patients with recurrent unipolar depression. Subjective and structural dimensions of social support protected the most severely depressed elderly patients against the loss of basic maintenance abilities.
Reduced PCP continuity may significantly decrease the quality of patient-provider communication in VA primary care. By improving longitudinal continuity with the assigned PCP, while redesigning team-based roles, the PACT initiative has the potential to improve patient-provider communication.
This study indicates that early mobilisation following surgical fixation of an ankle fracture results in a shorter hospital stay without evidence of an increased risk of re-admission or wound complication.
While previous authors have speculated on an association between mitempfindung and acupuncture, this is the first description of a relationship between stimulus and referral points and acupuncture meridians. The author suggests that the transmission of mitempfindung along acupuncture meridians may involve a series of C-fibre-Merkel cell relays, with the final referred itch sensation caused by substance P release triggering mast cell degranulation.
Results revealed that hormonal patterns assessed immediately after delivery do not provide any causal explanation for the cyclic menstruation-like bleeding that occurs during denied pregnancies. Hormone assessments performed after the lactation period, i.e. during a normal menstrual cycle, showed a number of abnormalities. However, a causal relationship could not be drawn.
In addition to perioperative blood transfusion, the individual surgeon was identified as an important risk factor for anastomotic leakage. Efforts should be made to reduce performance variability amongst surgeons.
The association between BMI and adenoma differs by age and sex. If BMI is utilized to refine screening practices for colorectal cancer, its influence on sex and age should be taken into account.
Although the risk of early femoral failures among the group with cysts appeared higher than the group without cysts, we could not demonstrate a significant statistical difference between the two groups. It is possible that bone grafting cysts rather than cementing them may account for the low failure rate, and that this technique may minimize the risk of resurfacing a femoral head with cysts.
Sufficient pouch capacity is achieved with our proposed operative technique. Urine pH must be monitored to prevent possible ulcerations and perforations.
A strategy of deferring biventricular repair by the application of a pulmonary artery band is ineffective under Third World conditions largely due to lack of patient compliance. This study shows that the overall mortality in the inter-stage period following PAB is high prior to definitive correction. Less than half of patients will eventually be repaired in a reasonable time frame and patient follow-up is unreliable. We conclude that consideration should be given to early definitive repair even in perceived high-risk cases.
Subacromial impingement symptoms are associated with altered upper and lower trapezius muscle activity which can be partially addressed by the application of tape.
A high proportion of patients with TB in a tertiary health facility, Beijing, China, had diabetes, but there was no association between type 2 diabetes and drug-resistant TB. Further prospective studies are needed to confirm these findings.
In the nonoperative management of children with perforated appendicitis, admission CT findings demonstrating disease beyond the right lower quadrant correlate with treatment failure.
In this pilot study, non-invasive assessment of the hemodynamic response to a volume load was not predictive of hypotension or vasopressor use during cesarean delivery under spinal anesthesia. Fluid responsiveness was related to hemodynamic responses at delivery.
The findings suggest that while the NHS 2004/05 estimates may accurately represent coverage in Australia particularly when examined at an aggregated level, there is some variation in the NHS estimates when examined by sex and age group.
Body mass index does not have an effect on serum AMH levels in women of reproductive age. Obesity has no association with levels of serum follicle stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, estradiol, prolactin and thyroid stimulating hormone. Obesity is unlikely to affect ovarian reserve in the premenopausal age group.
(18)F-FDG PET positivity is almost a constant feature of pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas. It may be considered a molecular signature of such tumors, although which aspect of the plethora of molecular changes associated with dedifferentiation, germline genetic defects, or the adaptive response to hypoxia is responsible for this characteristic requires further elucidation.
Our study confirms that low testosterone in IHH patients is associated with glomerular hyperfiltration. Patients with IHH should be carefully monitored with respect to their GFR.
These findings highlight the potential value of cost-effective interventions such as RA, cast doubt on the unique benefits of skill-based interventions for primary prevention of relationship dysfunction, and raise the possibility that skill-based interventions may inadvertently sensitize couples to skill deficits in their relationships.
Findings suggest that women and men have similar symptoms during an episode of UA, however, a higher proportion of women have less typical symptoms.
The GAP method is as accurate as term ultrasound in predicting birth weight in gestational diabetes.
Ketac Cem and Multilink Implant (without silane) can be used for a semipermanent cementation. Retrieve and Telio CS Cem are recommendable for a temporary cementation.
Test handling and interpretation was difficult. The rate of false strip test results is disappointing even for PSA ranges remote from the cutoff. In its present form the strip test fails to meet the clinical requirements and its launch to the market was therefore discontinued.
There was no evidence from this study that Helicobacter pylori (HP) colonizes the nasopharynx of children with middle ear disease, whether dyspeptic or not. There is also no apparent role for this bacterium in middle ear pathology.
DWI seems to be a useful adjunct for the diagnosis of capillary telangiectasias which will facilitate the differential diagnosis concerning tumorous, inflammatory and ischemic lesions.
Overall, internal fixation with angular fixed plates has definite benefits. The medium- and long-term follow-up and functional outcome still show no benefits over external fixation, however. External fixation is a genuine option, even if as second-line treatment.
In patients with presentations consistent with a benign etiology of syncope (vasovagal or dehydration) where the ED work-up was normal, we found no patients who would benefit from hospitalization based on risk factors alone.
These results indicate a different pattern of surgical care for Indigenous patients in relation to lung and prostate, but not breast, cancer. Reasons for these disparities, such as treatment choice and barriers to care, require further investigation.
The differential diagnosis of chest pain in the setting of high-dose chemotherapy with e.g. treosulfan should include pericarditis. The pathogenesis remains unclear. Alongside infections, direct toxic or immunological drug-related mechanisms are suggested.
For obese patients undergoing a significant weight loss, increased knee joint loading for 1 year was not associated with accelerated symptomatic and structural disease progression compared to a similar weight loss group that had reduced ambulatory compressive knee joint loads.
ORT influences the rate but not the volume of ICH and appears to be a critical predictor of symptomatic hemorrhage after successful combined intravenous and intra-arterial therapy. To minimize the risk of bleeding, revascularization should be achieved within 4.5 hours of stroke onset.
The parents were less likely to smoke if they were more than 35 years of age, had a child aged less than one year, had a spouse/co-habitee or had a long education. Smoking parents smoked less if they had a spouse/co-habitee, had a child aged less than one year or had few children. Smoking parents were more often careful and did not smoke indoors if they had a child aged less than one year, had a spouse/co-habitee, did not have a smoking spouse/co-habitee or smoked a low number of cigarettes per day.
After food fortification with folic acid, differences in serum folate values in pregnant women by maternal race/ethnicity, age, and body mass index persisted.
Instrumental rotation using Thierry's spatulas was not associated with a reduced risk of maternal and neonatal morbidity for persistent OP deliveries. Further studies are required to define the true interest of such procedure in modern obstetrics.
Parents and caregivers should be encouraged to expose young children to a wide variety of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, low-fat dairy products, and healthier fats, and to limit consumption of low-nutrient, energy-dense foods and beverages. Dietary guidance should stress the fact that children in this age group have high nutrient needs and relatively low energy requirements, leaving little room for such foods. Parents need advice that is specific, practical, and actionable.
This study failed to demonstrate a clear association between ultrasound scanning and intellectual performance.
Patients who are at risk for a longer stay in the hospital after THA can be identified preoperatively on simple physical function characteristics. These findings enable the identification of appropriate patients for preoperative training to improve functional recovery and decrease the LOS after primary THA.
Hodgkin's disease appears to be a striking exception from the usual positive correlation between high socioeconomic status and favorable treatment outcome in patients suffering from tumor. It is suggested that future studies on tumor genetics and biology and more detailed analysis of further socioeconomic parameters may be useful in clarifying this observation.
Despite improvements in stool samples' testing, the yield continues to be low, especially in hospital-onset diarrhea past the third hospital day. Physicians' embracement of the '3-day rule' continues to be poor.
Hypercapnia at admission is thought to be an independent predictor of better survival for the COPD patients who require mechanical ventilation.
This is the first study to report local and systemic concentration of SHH in human fracture healing and SHH serum levels in healthy adults. A significant reduction of the SHH levels during the inflammatory phase of fracture healing was found. SHH concentrations in fracture haematoma and serum were lower than the concentration in control serum for the rest of the healing period. Our findings indicate that there is no relevant involvement of SHH in human fracture healing. Fracture repair process seem to reduce the SHH level in human. Further studies are definitely needed to clarify the underlying mechanisms.
Sweet eaters do not have less favorable weight outcomes following Lap-Band surgery. Our study confirms the findings of two other major studies. Sweet eating behavior should not be used as a preoperative selection criterion for bariatric surgery.
From our experience, lobectomy should still be considered as the treatment of choice in the management of second primary lung cancer, but sublobar resection remains a valid option in high-risk patients with limited pulmonary function. Completion pneumonectomy was a negative prognostic factor in long-term survival.
Disease characteristics of de novo pouch Crohn's disease heavily influence pouch retention. The interval from pouch construction, fistulizing disease, and disease location can be used as prognostic indicators when ileal pouch Crohn's disease is diagnosed.
More than one-third of medical students who received scholarships in cardiothoracic surgery maintained their interest over time, and more than half maintained interest in a surgical field. Although long-term data are scarce, it remains critical to foster mentoring relationships with students over time to guide their career choices.
Teaching in English was rated as 30 % more difficult than in Danish, and a significant subgroup of doctors had difficulties in all forms of communication in English, resulting in challenges when introducing international students in non-native English speaking medical departments.
The model proved useful in eliciting research priorities from both professionals and burn survivors, and in stimulating a meaningful dialogue between these groups. The involvement of burn survivors identified burn research areas that are currently not the focus of research in The Netherlands.
High birth weight is associated with greater handgrip strength in adolescents, especially in females, yet these associations seem to be highly explained by fat-free mass.
This study shows that in preterm neonates pAVP concentration is affected by the clinical condition and blood pressure, but not by treatment with IPPV.
POCD was not significantly associated with registered dementia over a median follow-up of 11 yr.
Tumor behavior and rates of WDTC were similar in patients aged<45 and ≥ 45 years. Well-differentiated thyroid cancer occurred more often in patients younger than 50 years, whereas the rate of micropapillary carcinoma occurred more often in patients 50 years or older.
Similar rates of lower limb injuries were observed for all insoles (shock absorbing and non-shock absorbing) in the trial. The trial provides no support for a change in policy to the use of shock absorbing insoles for military recruits.
Bone biopsy culture is a more sensitive technique of assessing microbial contamination of cryo-stored autogenous bone flaps than swab cultures. The clinical implications of in vitro demonstration of microbial contamination require further study.
The findings, coupled with reports in the past 10 years from other investigators, challenge the conventional belief that the incidence of schizophrenia is the same for the two sexes.
In 69 % of patients with endosonographically diagnosed gastric SMTs, the tumor can also be visualized (and measured) using transabdominal ultrasound of the water-filled stomach. This noninvasive and inexpensive method may potentially be useful for surveillance in patients with SMTs, and further evaluation in this setting is warranted.
Our results support the hypothesis of 2 proliferative compartments in the development of ACAD, with differing receptor or enzyme distribution: the compartment of small, intramyocardial arteries in which ACAD can be reduced by ACE or AT(1) blockade, and that of large, epicardial arteries in which inhibition fails.
The high-frequency hearing reduction noted in patients after mastoid surgery was shown not to be due to excessive high-frequency noise generated by drilling.
A single serum hCG measurement obtained 14 to 16 days after embryo or gamete transfer not only is diagnostic but also has good predictive value for pregnancy outcome.
Within the European asylum reception sector, residents and professionals of both sexes experience SGBV victimization and perpetration. Given the lack of prevention policies, our findings call for urgent Desirable Prevention programmes addressing determinants socio-ecologically.
The occurrence of acanthomata in healed lesions of pemphigus is not uncommon; because histopathologic and immunofluorescence evidence of disease activity is present, cases of this sort require careful follow-up.
Patients with stroke or TIA have atherosclerotic plaques in the carotid arteries. The prevalence of extracranial carotid stenosis is comparable to that reported in the literature. PAOD may be helpful to identify patients at high risk for severe carotid stenosis. Carotid duplex scanning should be performed as a routine examination for patients with stroke, TIA, and PAOD.
Management of painful varicocele in pediatric patients should be studied through randomized trials comparing conservative and surgical treatments. While waiting for objective data supporting surgery, clinical evidence justifies varicocelectomy which, on the other hand, is not supported by objective clinical data (i.e., hormonal values).
It was feasible to assemble a picture of community exposure by integration of measurements from different sources. Proximity of residence was a reasonable surrogate for complex community exposure.
If it is true that too little folic acid results in nervous tissue damage, as is accepted by the scientific community in regard to neural tube defects (NTDs), then it seems plausible that too much folic acid may result in nervous tissue damage associated with autism. Although the correlations described here do not provide proof of causation, these data provide an impetus for further study. Children who develop autism may be receiving a massive dose of folic acid in utero, as well as, after birth. It would be of interest to carry out a case-control study using medical record data to document folic acid intake for pregnant women whose offspring were later diagnosed with autism and controls.
Local-regional failure was seen most in patients who had gross disease at the time of IMRT, almost always occurred outside of the 70 Gy volume and was frequently in the area of oesophageal sparing. Meticulous surgical dissection, especially in the perioesophageal region, should be prioritised to prevent long-term LRF.
Although there is a possibility that eyes are contagious during the incubation period of adenoviral conjunctivitis in some situations, these results suggest that the possibility of the eye acting as a source for spreading infection during the incubation period is very small.
The percentage of type-1 LADA in our sample made us wonder whether we should search for pancreatic antibodies more often in primary care. More studies on the prevalence of type-1 LADA in our country are needed, especially in diabetic patients with overweight. Type-1 LADA patients improved their metabolic control after metformin treatment and showed a drastic decrease in insulin levels. Further studies are needed to evaluate whether metformin improves metabolic control, even though it may not protect insulin reserves, and to contrast metformin with other drugs.
Incisional negative-pressure wound therapy reduced the incidence of mastectomy flap necrosis. This simple and reliable dressing technique can be effective in preventing mastectomy flap necrosis in immediate expander-based breast reconstruction.CLINICAL QUESTION/
Changes in coagulation parameters occurred both towards pro- and anticoagulation. Treatment with high-dose ethinyl estradiol can successfully limit final height, and it is most effective when started at a younger bone age.
High- and low-velocity training achieved similar improvements in functional performance and disability. Improvements in functional performance and disability were modest compared with robust increases in strength and power. Specific modes of training or behavioral strategies may be necessary to optimize improvements in these outcomes.
The association of diabetes with uncontrolled BP outcomes is lower despite higher prevalence of diabetes in Mexican Americans than in non-Hispanic whites. The stronger association of diabetes with BP outcomes in whites should be of clinical concern, considering they account for the majority of the hypertensive population in the United States.
The addition of external aortic prosthetic ring annuloplasty improves the remodeling technique's operative reproducibility and short-term results. Therefore, its use as a systematical adjunct to the remodeling procedure is suggested. However, further long-term evaluation comparing this valve-sparing procedure to composite graft replacement should define the best surgical strategy for aortic root aneurysm.
Increasing age did not result in poor health-related quality of life in all domains. The general health perception was better in the elderly, which might be due to their better coping ability.
Identifying the more "high-risk" neck may be useful when deciding the extent of neck dissection after CRT. For patients with bilateral nodal disease treated with CRT, dissection of the "low-risk" hemineck may be omitted if the "high-risk" neck is pathologically negative.
We have evaluated histological criteria adapted from the examination of limb muscles in the LAM of nulliparous young women. "Myogenic changes" seem to be a normal finding in the LAM. The increase of these changes with aging and parity points to mechanical stress to the LAM as the most plausible causative factor. We propose that further studies using histomorphological techniques of the pelvic floor muscle in nulliparous and parous women should clarify the potential role of our histological findings.
Since clear and etiologically meaningful differentiation between these diagnostic categories is not possible, they should not be separated by artificial diagnostic criteria for research purposes. Rather, the whole "schizo-paranoid" spectrum should always be analyzed. As long as classification is based on differences in symptomatology, the influences of pathoplastic factors should be taken into account.
More MCT is not always better for all children. Clinicians can expect that increasing the frequency of MCT sessions will yield moderate enhancement of outcomes if the child has high interest in objects.
Appropriately timed neoadjuvant chemotherapy with a highly effective regimen rapidly restores normal swallowing, maintains nutritional status, and obviates the need for invasive tube feeding in patients with significant dysphagia from esophageal adenocarcinoma.
The majority of the treated boys were free of complaints; however, most of them underwent a complete removal of their foreskin simply because it was nonretractable. The foreskin represents the most sensitive part of the male genital, preputiolysis is a natural process that can go on until early adolescence. Irreversible surgical procedures, such as a complete foreskin removal, should thus be restricted to a clear medical indication.
The much lower cost of administrative data make their use attractive, but they are still subject to underreporting and other problems. We recommend further evaluations using both types of data with investigative audits to better understand the sources and magnitudes of errors in both survey and administrative data so that appropriate corrections to the data can be made.
Heparin was significantly associated with an extremely low frequency of post-ERCP pancreatitis without increasing the risk of hemorrhage after endoscopic sphincterotomy. Because this effect could not be attributed to other known or suspected confounders, our conclusion was that heparin administration before ERCP reduces the risk of pancreatitis.
The consistent finding of fewer-than-expected PM/DM cases among collagen users suggests that collagen use is not associated with the development of PM/DM:
Surveillance of patients with cirrhosis within this cohort is suboptimal. Although disappointing at a local level, this is likely to be reflective of practice elsewhere.
As delayed displacement of bone cement can result in progression of an osteoporotic compression fracture of the vertebrae, we propose that sufficient penetration of bone cement into the microstructure of the trabecular bone of the vertebral body during kyphoplasty could reduce the risk of this phenomenon.
In this cohort of patients who underwent laparoscopic SCH, the risk of hyperplasia or malignancy was low. Laparoscopic SCH with morcellation seems to be a low-risk procedure.
Based on this observational study, there is no evidence that in patients with shock the use of hypooncotic fluids increases the risk of late-onset ARDS. This finding needs to be confirmed.
Our observations suggest that perivascular fat-derived NO plays a beneficial role in saphenous veins harvested atraumatically and used as grafts in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery.
Anticholinergic treatment is not always satisfactory in terms of control of NDO and rarely allows full continence. Urodynamic follow-up is mandatory in all patients, even in those showing clinical continence.
Elective CSs performed under regional anaesthesia are low-risk deliveries. The slight increased requirement for bag and mask ventilation is not practically significant. Such deliveries do not require the routine attendance of experienced paediatric medical staff.
These findings stress the importance of subdividing neonatal encephalopathy into diagnostic categories according to brain lesions if one wishes to study either causative factors or outcome.
Insulin-resistant women were at greater cardiometabolic risk, irrespective of adiposity category. Obesity contributed to a modest variability in insulin resistance, and abdominal obesity does not add to the ability of BMI to predict insulin resistance.
Improved transversus abdominis lateral slide among participants with low baseline slide was associated with clinically important long-term pain reduction. High baseline slide and delayed onset of abdominal muscles after the intervention period were weakly associated with higher pain at 1-year follow-up. Clinical Trial Registration number The study was preregistered in ClinicalTrials.gov with identifier NCT00201513.
Fine lactose played a key and dominating role in controlling FPF. SX to fine lactose ratios influenced dispersion of SX with maximum dispersion occurring as the ratio approached unity.
We suggest some additional studies of the mechanisms of protection that could distinguish among potential alternative mechanisms, including acquired immunity to noncapsular antigens, maturation of nonspecific immune responses, or changes in anatomy or exposure.
The effects of attentional training show limited generalisation to different alcohol cues and methods of measuring cognitive bias. Experimentally increased attentional bias seems to increase subjective craving, but only among participants who are aware of the experimental contingencies that were in place during attentional training.
Our study suggests that plasma cell mucositis does not meet microscopic criteria for IgG4-RD. It importantly reinforces the opinion that IgG4+ plasma cells are major components of chronic inflammation in the oral cavity and the pertinence of correct contextual interpretation of histopathological features with clinical findings.
The use of CTAP and CTHA, in addition to being invasive and costly, resulted in an unacceptably high false-positive rate without a substantial increase in sensitivity. Therefore, CTAP and CTHA are not recommended for preoperative evaluation of HCC; THCT alone is preferred.
Primary-caregivers can do like referees to evaluate the mental health care. A positive image of these MHU was showed.
In this cohort of patients with CKD, we found that patients with aortic calcifications (ACs) had higher sclerostin levels. However, in multivariate analysis, the association became inverse. Additional clinical and experimental studies are urgently required to clarify whether or not sclerostin protects against progression of vascular calcification.
In this high-risk sample, the behavioral and developmental outcomes of 8-year-old children with unsubstantiated and substantiated maltreatment reports filed between ages 4 and 8 were indistinguishable. Future research should attempt to replicate these findings on probability samples that represent the full range of childhood maltreatment risk and with models that control for the impact of social services.
MRM on mid-field seems to improve the detection of cancers when used as a supplement to M+US in women with primary breast cancer. We believe that the results are fair compared to MRM on high-field, although further research and refinement are needed.
The type of burn affects hypermetabolism, inflammation, acute-phase responses, and mortality postburn.
Erythropoietin administration significantly accelerates correction of anemia after acute ulcer bleeding. The haematocrit gain is equivalent to one unit of transfused blood two weeks after the bleeding episode.
The use of gadolinium is not necessary for visualization of WM-tracts using hT2w-3D-FLAIR, and P-hT2w-3D-FLAIR without gadolinium may have future clinical applications as an imaging procedure.
The RSV antigen test we examined had modest performance characteristics. The results of the antigen test should be interpreted in the context of the results of previous tests.
Whole eye wavefront analysis is essential to methods designed to optimize visual performance with CRT; results indicate that CRT affects the entire optical system and not just the anterior corneal surface. Moreover, because CRT-induced whole eye spherical aberration cannot be explained by corneal aberrations alone, commonly accepted beliefs that the mechanism of action is limited to corneal tissue redistribution may need to be revisited.
The value of rural placements as a method for increasing health science students' intentionality to take up rural practice as a positive and viable career option is considerable.
In women with small multifocal breast cancers with extensive casting calcifications and DCIS, the incidence of positive lymph nodes was 33%, with a tendency for poor tumor markers. These women appear to be at substantial risk for systemic disease; lymph node sampling and adjuvant systemic therapy are recommended.
The study found a positive relationship between bladder carcinoma and tobacco use; however, it could not establish a clear relationship between bladder carcinoma and urine pH, even in the smoker group.
Frailty status was associated with decreased cancer incidence, particularly in men, and suggests that mechanisms related to the pathogenesis of frailty may also play a role in inhibiting tumorigenesis. Why this would be more apparent in men than women remains to be clarified.
This study provides important information regarding the clinical interpretation of NRS pain scores in children. Data further support the NRS as a valid measure of pain intensity in relation to the child's PNM, PR, and PS in the acute postoperative setting. However, the variability in scores in relation to other clinically meaningful outcomes suggests that application of cut-points for individual treatment decisions is inappropriate.
The study indicates that vitrification of prepubertal testicular tissue does not increase the expression profile of apoptosis-related genes such as Bax and Fas in the testicular SSCs consistent with diminished cell apoptotic/necrotic responses and no increasing intracellular LDH leakage.
Routine drain placement in children who are undergoing the Sistrunk procedure may not be necessary. Subsequently, postoperative admission may be avoided.
From these results we conclude that BMI might be a useful parameter for epidemiological studies: however in the individual pediatric patient, especially from 10 y onwards, it gives only a limited insight to the degree of obesity based on the definition.
Awareness of sun protection campaigns is low among parents. Knowledge of adequate sun protection behaviour should be further increased at the population level in Germany independently of sociodemographic status.
hif-1alpha is expressed in the majority of patients with node-positive breast cancer. It can serve as a prognostic marker for an unfavorable outcome in those with T1/T2 tumors and positive axillary lymph nodes.
QT dispersion is not affected by the presence of hibernating myocardium and is therefore not clinically useful in identifying patients with this phenomenon. This is in contrast with recent reports by other groups and calls for further investigation of this dichotomy.
Intravesical stent position did not significantly influence associated morbidity in our study. An appropriate stent length should be chosen to avoid dislocation. However, complex calculations of optimum stent length, time-consuming manipulations, and costly stock holding of various stent sizes to obtain the perfect stent position do not seem worthwhile.
Digital dilatation of a closed cervix in elective CS might lower the incidence of abnormal scarring of the uterine incision.
This investigation provides some additional validity evidence that measures collected for purposes of student evaluation before and during medical school are warranted.
Using violent pictures in ImRS does not seem to be particularly risky as it does not increase aggressive emotions in the participants; however it has no added value. For the purpose of emotion regulation after an analog trauma, the safe place imagery does best.
Elevated pretransplant serum CRP level is a risk predictor for major cardiac events in renal transplant patients. It is also predictive, besides leukocyte counts, for acute rejection episodes. Elevated CRP levels and initial high leukocyte counts may prove to be useful markers for posttransplant course and warrant the close follow-up of such patients.
The response in children's externalizing psychopathology did not differ between maternal treatment groups. However, multimodal treatment was associated with more improvement in maternal ADHD. Child and maternal treatment gains were stable (CCT-ISRCTN73911400).
When imaging guidance and interventional radiologic techniques are used for upper extremity and internal jugular central venous access, performing postprocedure chest radiography yields little benefit.
This study revealed that disclosure of basic clinical skills rubric to medical students could enhance their clinical performance, particularly in history taking and physical examination scores.
Considerable variation existed between surgeons with regard to the types of preoperative diagnostic procedure used and operations performed. The rate of positive margins was high, which resulted in many reoperations.
Unplanned readmissions are not rare after resection for non-small cell lung cancer. Such events are associated with a greater risk of short- and long-term mortality. With the renewed national focus on readmissions and potential financial disincentives, greater resource allocation is needed to identify patients at risk and develop measures to avoid the associated adverse outcomes.
Cervical cancer incidence rates have decreased moderately in Spain, a trend consistent with the preventive effect of widespread opportunistic screening.
Inappropriate use of NIV in non-designated areas is associated with a high mortality. Critical care outreach nurses can play a pivotal role in influencing appropriate patient selection for NIV.
Whether adverse reactions to foods are a key factor in exacerbating IBS symptoms or whether dietary manipulation is a valid treatment option is unclear. Carefully designed controlled clinical trials are now needed to specifically test the potential role of adverse food reactions in diarrhea-predominant IBS.
Patients with sole PNES receiving AEDs can go into PNES remission. A favorable response to AEDs is likely to be interpreted as supporting a diagnosis of epilepsy and is associated with diagnostic delay. Physicians should bear in mind that patients with PNES may be particularly vulnerable to placebo effects.
The SAS does not predict 30-day major complications and death in patients undergoing general orthopaedic surgery, but it is useful in the subgroup of patients undergoing spine surgery.
Practical skills and peer teaching fulfill student educational goals in ophthalmology and are well accepted by undergraduates.
Training may contribute to the development of airway hyperresponsiveness in elite swimmers, but this seems reversible in many athletes after training cessation for at least 2 weeks.
There is a tendency that greater absolute errors generating determinate force are made by MH and MS subjects in case of a greater elbow flexors length despite presence of VFI. Absolute errors also increase in both groups in case of a greater elbow flexors length without VFI. MS subjects make greater absolute errors generating determinate force without VFI in comparison with MH in shorter elbow flexors length.
Aortic rupture at the time of surgery does not increase the risk of hospital mortality or permanent neurologic complications in patients with acute type A dissections. However, aortic rupture at the time of surgery does influence long-term survival.
There is evidence of generalizability for the associations of land use mix, and presence of sidewalks with physical activity. Associations of other neighborhood characteristics with physical activity tended to differ by country. Future studies should include objective measures of neighborhood environments, compare psychometric properties of reports across countries, and use better specified models to further understand the similarities and differences in associations across countries.
Habitual vigorous activity was not associated with increased risk of subsequent MI in subjects with established CHD, but additional data for stroke would be useful.
This exploratory study suggests that NRG1 may be involved in determining STG size in schizophrenia, and may play a role in the neurogenetic basis of the language disturbances seen in this disorder. However, due to our small sample size, the results should be regarded as preliminary and replicated in a larger sample.
Under emergency room conditions, physicians can quite accurately exclude airway obstruction by auscultation. Normal lung auscultation is an independent predictor for not having an airway obstruction. However, airway obstruction is often overestimated by auscultation; thus, spirometry should be performed.
From 1994 to 2009, the observed decrease in ASMRs was steeper in younger age groups than that predicted by the Spectrum model, perhaps because the Spectrum model under-estimated the ASMRs in 30-34 year olds in 1994-99. However, the Spectrum model predicted greater 45Q15 mortality than observed in the cohort,although the reasons for this over-estimate are unclear [corrected].
Routine microscopic examination of all LSG specimens is not necessary. Selective microscopic examination guided by relevant clinical history and macroscopic examination is a better option. This protocol will save money, time, and workload without compromising patient's safety and future management. However, a careful gross description is still necessary in certain cases for potential future medicolegal implications.
Analysis of mature B-cell markers in MALT lymphoma tissue is more useful than the examination of immunoglobulin gene rearrangement or serum levels of soluble IL-2 receptor in predicting the outcome of low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma after H. pylori eradication.
Decentralization of the odontoid process is not necessarily an indirect sign for its fracture. In patients with suspected injury of the odontoid process, an MDCT scan might be the method of choice to rule out a fracture.
We showed that pelvic floor muscle size and mobility of the bladder neck were reduced three months after radical hysterectomy, and that they regenerated to a level only slightly below the preoperative level one year later.
We conclude that IPSS, free flow Q(max) and BOOI are only loosely related at baseline. More importantly, treatment-induced improvements of these parameters are also only loosely related. These data do question the hypothesis that alpha-blockers largely improve lower urinary tract symptoms by reducing bladder outlet obstruction and suggest that they may also act independent of prostatic smooth muscle tone.
In our series, Warthin's tumor was the most frequent mass probably related to the high tobacco use. The prevalence of malignant tumors was relatively high in our series. Primary malignant tumors and pleomorphic adenomas should always be treated surgically, however, lymphomas, metastatic and benign inflammatory masses and cases of Warthin's tumors could be managed nonsurgically.
Models based only on clinical information do not reliably predict the presence of pneumonia. The addition of an elevated C-reactive protein level seems of little value.
In this large cohort, breast-feeding for>12 months was inversely related to the development of RA. This apparent effect was dose-dependent, with a significant trend toward lower risk with longer duration of breast-feeding. Irregular menstrual cycles and earlier age at menarche increased the risk of RA. Other reproductive hormonal factors were not associated with RA risk.
We conclude that astrocytes are the type of glial cell selectively impacted in cortical tuber pathology. We propose that tubers may be dynamic lesions, with progression of astrocytes over time from "reactive" to "gliotic." Tuber astrogliosis in TSC may represent a genetic "model" of gliosis that is phenotypically similar to gliosis seen in acquired human pathologies.
The organised breast cancer screening implemented in the Florentine area achieved the goal of reducing inequalities in breast cancer survival.
Our results show that the relation between PBF and BMI in HA women differs from that of EA and AA women.
MR urethrography is a promising tool for defining male urethral strictures and can provide extra guidance for treatment planning that cannot be obtained with RUG.
Up to 5.4% of patients with a typical IICH profile that present with an intracranial hypertension syndrome can present TCVS. The presence of prothrombotic factors and a high D-dimer can suggest this possibility, although there is still a need for well-established parameters that allow decisions to be made in emergencies in the absence of any chance of performing an urgent MR phlebography scan.
Diabetic patients with measurable C-peptide levels before transplant were older, overweight, more frequently African-American and had a later age of onset of diabetes, longer duration of pretransplant dialysis, and reduced patient survival compared to insulinopenic patients undergoing SKPT. The other outcomes were similar.
Such findings allow us to conclude that polyalveolar lobe can and must be diagnosed by a simple and practical method, such as the radial alveolar count, which decreases the incidence of the unknown etiology. The findings of an increased number of alveoli on patients younger than 3 is related to congenital lobar emphysema, since the number of alveoli does not increase in congenital lobar emphysema, just the opposite to what one would expect in the normal development of the lung.
Early unilateral adrenalectomy allows cure or improvement of hypertension in all patients with primary aldosteronism induced by unilateral excessive source of aldosterone secretion regardless of the pathologic findings. Persistent hypertension suggests that coexisting essential hypertension is present.
Addition of albumin to prime solution in a cardiopulmonary bypass circuit that already contains colloids does not affect the transoxygenator resistance of the COBE Duo flat sheet oxygenator and does not affect prothrombin F1.2 and beta-thromboglobulin levels. Therefore additional costs for the albumin are not justified. Measurement of transoxygenator resistance is a reliable, simple method to determine the effects of a prime solution on the oxygenator surface in vivo.
The nonorbital-rated ultrasound machine (Sonosite Micromaxx) increases the ocular tissue temperature. A larger study is needed to establish safety. Until then, ophthalmic ultrasound-guided blocks should only be performed with ocular-rated devices.
The prevalence of the SOD1 mutation in FALS in Catalonia is similar to levels in other Mediterranean countries, but lower than those in reports studying the Belgian, Japanese, and Scottish populations. The prevalence of the SOD1 mutation was 4.25% in patients with no family history of ALS. These results may have significant repercussions on genetic counseling, and screening for the SOD1 mutation in sporadic ALS cases must therefore be considered.
Both affected and unaffected sisters had more set-shifting difficulties than unrelated healthy women. This finding, together with the replicated finding that set-shifting difficulties persist after recovery, suggests that set-shifting difficulties are trait characteristics and may inform the search for the endophenotype in anorexia nervosa.
This study is the first to have empirically identified a mix of specific and distinguishing planning policy neighbourhood design requirements to optimise walking outcomes. These findings will assist in the assessment of urban plans for greenfield suburban developments designed to promote walking and physical activity.
Universal health insurance coverage alone cannot mitigate the existing inequity in healthcare; the Chinese government must develop appropriate financial policies and measures to provide more financial support to URBMI in order to improve equitable and affordable access to healthcare.
Per-operative plasma GH monitoring is a potentially useful tool for determining the completeness of trans-sphenoidal surgery in acromegaly.
In middle-age adults, a higher peak knee adduction moment and peak knee flexion moment at 3 months after medial APM may be associated with adverse structural changes at the medial tibia and patella over the subsequent 2 yr. These preliminary findings warrant further investigation as interventions aimed at reducing these moments may be designed if appropriate.
Although the measurements during PM FU are according to guidelines, the frequency of FU is not. Moreover, in the vast majority of performed FU, PM programming is left unchanged. This suggests that a large portion of FU visits is redundant, such that their frequency after the first year can be diminished, or replaced by remote FU.
There was no recurrence of cam deformity at 2 years after femoral neck osteoplasty for femoroacetabular impingement. PRO scores were improved at the 3-month and 2-year postoperative time points.
Conventional clinical methods of initiating CPB at a hyperoxemic PO(2) may increase the possibility of myocardial reoxygenation injury in cyanotic children. This deleterious effect of reoxygenation can be modified by initiating CPB at a lower level of oxygen concentration. Subsequent long-term studies are needed to determine the best method of decreasing the oxygen concentration of the CPB circuit.
National professional organizations, insurance companies, and payers need to convene and formulate fair auditing guidelines.
There was moderate familial aggregation of depression in women and this primarily was attributable to genetic factors. In men, there was only modest familial aggregation of depression. For both men and women, individual environmental experiences played a large role in the development of depression. Major depressive disorder as defined by DSM-III-R was more heritable in women as compared with men. The relative contributions of genetic and environmental factors in the development of depression were similar for varying definitions of depression, from a broad definition to a narrow definition.
Calpain activity can be stimulated by nanomolar concentrations of ouabain due to an influx of extracellular Ca2+. As circulating ouabain is known to be elevated in uremia and strongly associated with LVH remodeling, we hypothesize that endogenous ouabain might be one of the factors that facilitates the remodeling of the left ventricle in patients with renal failure.
Acute basal ganglia hyperperfusion in patients with stroke may indicate nonviable parenchyma and risk of hemorrhagic conversion.
There was a skew towards early deaths. The trimodal distribution of trauma deaths was not demonstrated in this group of patients.
With respect to identifying women with a medical diagnosis of angina or those presenting to primary care with anginal symptoms, these results suggest that a shortened version of the Rose angina questionnaire focusing on exertional chest pain performs better than the full version. Other studies suggest that exertional chest pain is the crucial element of the Rose angina questionnaire with respect to predicting future coronary events. It is concluded that using a shortened version of the Rose angina questionnaire is adequate in epidemiological studies.
Associations between physical violence and poor self rated health and self reported morbidity were found to be significant for women, but not for men. It is probable that gender differences in experiences of violence, as well as gender differences in health related self perception, contribute to a gender specific process of victimisation. Improved knowledge about the relation between gender specific violence and victimisation as a gender specific consequence is essential for targeting violence prevention.
Transmission of hepatitis C virus by blood and blood products was better recognized in all groups tested, but the other means of infection were either overestimated (skin contact, sharing toilet and clothes) or under-recognized (blood-contaminated objects). More vigorous education programs are needed to increase awareness of hepatitis C virus in various risk groups in our country.
The favourable effect of early class III protraction facemask treatment undertaken in patients under 10 years of age, is maintained at 3-year follow-up in terms of ANB, overjet and % PAR improvement. The direct protraction treatment effect at SNA is still favourable although not statistically significantly better than the CG. Seventy per cent of patients in PFG had maintained a positive overjet which we have defined as ongoing treatment success. Early protraction facemask treatment does not seem to influence self-esteem or reduce the patient's personal impact of their malocclusion at 3-year follow-up.
In private practice vascular medicine, it seems possible to mention the subject of advance directives, as recommended by the French authorities. The procedure is well perceived by the patients. It nevertheless implies allotting a non-negligible amount of additional consultation time. The reinforcement of the doctor-patient relationship suggested by these results should be confirmed by a qualitative study made up of meetings.
Despite the accepted wisdom that osteoporosis is a common complication of primary biliary cirrhosis, its frequency in post-menopausal patients overlaps that observed in the general population, but is much more frequent in premenopausal patients, where it appears to be related to severity of liver disease and cholestasis.
PSA velocity, %fPSA and gland volume information improves the prediction of men undergoing expectant management who are more likely to have small volume disease based on a 12-core biopsy interpretation within the time of our observations. %fPSA proved to be a valuable marker to stratify the 2 risk groups. Therefore, based on these factors it may be possible to consider deferment of repeat prostate biopsy until adverse results are detected. This rational approach to the management of prostate cancer in older men with small volume cancer seems to be a reasonable strategy.
Correction of larger curves was associated with increased utilization of perioperative health-care resources, specifically longer operative time, a greater number of vertebral levels instrumented, and higher odds of receiving a blood transfusion.
The public purpose, enterprise and innovation potential of health promotion foundations provides them with unique capacity to respond to SDH. In the complex and contested policy environment surrounding action on the determinants of health, the role that foundations can most usefully play is that of a change agent in a broader social movement seeking health equity.
In patients with stable coronary artery disease, the incidence of AHR was low and there was no relationship between AHR or airway inflammation and coronary atherosclerosis.
In summary, dispersants do not appear to add to the magnitude of transcriptional responses of oil compounds but rather appear to lower or modify the transcriptional effect on cod larvae.
Second-year teaching format did not directly influence subsequent clerkship performance. Our study adds to the literature by demonstrating that the authenticity of preclinical teaching format does not appear to matter for clerkship performance; however, the number of actual patients seen does appear to influence related clerkship outcomes.
In conclusion, we suggest that pilonidal sinus cases which are not complicated by abcess and cellulitis can be treated by local removal of umbilical hairs, debridement and dressing without surgery. We conclude that application of common salt (table/ cooking salt) to umbilical pilonidal sinus with granuloma is a simple and highly effective way of treatment without any relapse and complications.
Aggressive resection seems to be of utmost importance in the treatment of immature teratomas of the CNS. Adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy can be deferred if GTR is achieved in low-grade, immature teratomas, but adjuvant therapies may be warranted for high-grade ones.
Accompanied and non accompanied patients differed more in socio-demographic than clinical characteristics. Companions sustained the patient and shared information without reducing the level of patient involvement.
Survey nonresponse in the EHBS produces an upward bias on estimates for the offer rates of small firms. Although not significant, this upward bias is because of nonresponse by small firms that do not offer health benefits. Our research is limited in that we only control for differences in the size of the firm.
The combination of pseudoepitheliomatous hyperplasia, microabscesses, and multinucleate giant cells in a gingival biopsy specimen from erythematous, swollen gums, clinically resembling over-ripe strawberries, in a patient with a severe systemic upset, is so typical of Wegener's granulomatosis as to be virtually diagnostic. Recognition of this characteristic lesion may aid early diagnosis and treatment in cases where other diagnostic variables are absent.
PEVAR may be performed with low patient morbidity after therapeutic heparinization without heparin reversal. Femoral artery repair after the removal of large-diameter sheaths using the Preclose technique can be performed in this setting with minimal rates of early and late bleeding or thrombosis.
The IP dipstick is the most appropriate rapid diagnostic assay for the detection of V. cholerae O1 in locations where the skill level of personnel may be low, such as remote areas or refugee camp settings. High cost may limit the utility of any diagnostic test in the developing world.
While inclusion of unpublished data in scientific overviews remains controversial, most investigators directly involved in meta-analysis believe that unpublished data should not be systematically excluded. The most valid synthesis of available information will result when meta-analysts subject published and unpublished material to the same rigorous methodological evaluation and present results with and without unpublished sources of data.
In this 20-year nationwide sample of hip fractures, patients with PD were overrepresented by a factor of 4.
Using an established screening device, Punjabi-speaking women were found to be at higher risk for prenatal depressive symptoms.
In a patient with a recurrence of T1G3 bladder cancer after BCG therapy, progression and subsequent cancer death is the threat. Guideline standard is radical surgery. Alternative possibilities are still limited.
From our study, trisialotransferrin seems to be a useful additional biomarker to CDT in order to improve detection of chronic excessive alcohol intake.
Foregut duplications may present in a variety of ways and locations. Thoracoscopy is advantageous for isolated intrathoracic FDs.
We describe an unusual cluster of severe disease caused by H influenzae type a that resembles the clinical and epidemiologic features of H influenzae type b disease. Our data support the hypothesis that the IS1016-bexA deletion may identify more virulent strains of H influenzae. Haemophilus influenzae, epidemiology, virulence, serotyping, pathogenicity.
Genetic analysis of LCT-13910 C/T and LCT-22018 G/A is a good indicator for the presence of lactose intolerance. Because age, as well as a number of secondary causes (e.g. celiac disease), can influence HBT results, it is useful to combine HBT and genetic analysis in the diagnostic assessment of IBS.
An early start of sucking lemon candy may induce a significant increase in salivary gland damage. Lemon candy should not be given until 24 h after radioiodine therapy.
Obtaining adult oral health data during elective dental consultations in General Dental Practice as a means to gather dental epidemiological information for adults is feasible.
AMAs are the serological hallmark of PBC in both men and women, and there is no significant difference in reactivity between the two groups of patients.
Extended EVLA is safe, increases spontaneous resolution of varicosities, and has a greater impact on symptom reduction. Similar benefits occurred after concomitant BK-GSV foam sclerotherapy.
Concomitant vaginal prolapse repair with TOT does not have any negative effects on continence outcomes; on the contrary, it increases patient satisfaction.
Involving fellows in LRYGB may increase DVT, SSIs, UTIs, and sepsis, especially early in training. By completion of their training, cases involving fellows exhibited outcomes similar to cases without trainees. This supports both the need for fellowship training in bariatric surgery and the success of training to optimize patient outcomes.
The presence of fetal growth restriction among women with severe early-onset pre-eclampsia is not associated with increased severity of maternal disease. However the incidence of stillbirth and perinatal death is significantly increased in this sub-population.
SD and Poincaré plot methods lead to substantial inaccuracy in HR estimates. The time-varying HRV analysis led to strong correlation coefficients and low limits of agreement. Therefore, this method may be a promising, low-cost tool for non-invasive assessment of the ventilatory thresholds in cardiac disease.
Outbreaks of HPAI have the potential to cause serious impacts on the Australian poultry industry. The risk posted by LPM and free-range ducks is limited, but the movement of genetic stock and common service providers could spread infection between companies, industries or geographical regions. Biosecurity measures are therefore considered critical to limit the secondary spread of infection should an outbreak occur.
The use of freehand technique for pedicle screw fixation in spinal deformity correction requires a minimum amount of fluoroscopic use, hence decreasing radiation exposure to the surgeon and patient.
Prognosis of early cervical AC patients, treated with surgery, appears to be less favorable as compared to patients with SCC, treated with the same method.
It is concluded that serum TAS is decreased in patients with CAP, suggesting the presence of oxidative stress, and that change in TAS seems to be influenced by disease severity. TAS measurement may be useful in estimating the severity of CAP and is a probable indication for the administration of antioxidants in the management of the disease.
In our cardiac arrest model neurological function was not influenced by different anesthetic regimes; in contrast, anesthesia with sevoflurane/fentanyl results in increased CSF inflammation and histologic damage at day 5 post cardiac arrest.
Bilateral pedicled ITA harvesting was not associated with a greater incidence of infectious sternal complications compared to patients receiving unilateral ITA bypass grafts.
Results confirm that children who will develop renal scarring show higher levels of s-IL6 and s-CRP at UTI diagnosis. However, none of the techniques provide sufficient information for predicting renal damage in all patients and for DMSA patient selection.
Because of wide variations is cognitive workload among caregivers, effective communication can be structured around critical events rather than defined intervals analogous to the sterile cockpit, with reduction in communication breakdowns.
In the USA, moderate consumers consistently report a greater likelihood of breast, cervical, and colorectal cancer screening than do non-consumers. Given the likelihood of overdiagnosis, further study of alcohol consumption and cancer should include cancer-specific mortality, which is less sensitive to differences in screening and detection.
Due to relatively low specificity or sensitivity of SM terms, relevant terms should be employed in search queries and clear definitions of SM applications should be applied to improve the relevancy of publications.
In our sample, the PHQ-8 and PHQ-2 performed almost equally in detecting probable major depressive disorder in a sample of pregnant women. The categorical scoring method for the PHQ-8 had lower sensitivity but slightly higher specificity than the dimensional version. We found the PHQ-8 and PHQ-2 to have lower sensitivity and specificity in our pregnant population as compared to findings in nonpregnant populations; however, characteristics of our sample and choice of diagnostics instrument could explain these discrepant findings.
Taxanes maintain an activity as a later-line agent, even with 3 or more intervening therapies. However, the highest responses were seen if taxanes were used within 12 months of the last platinum-based combination. The lack of an increased response with aprolonged taxane-free interval is likely related to the number of IT, consistent with the emergence of multidrug resistance.
The outcomes of this study indicate that the pharyngeal airway gradually recovers over time. An immediate postoperative reduction in pharyngeal airway space can induce or exacerbate obstructive sleep apnea symptoms; thus, any pre-existing symptoms should be screened and considered for surgical treatment planning.
Anterior chamber paracentesis appears to be a safe procedure in the hands of an experienced ophthalmologist.
This is the first study to report the differences between ocular and nasal segments of lacrimal stents. These differences could propel further studies on stent biomechanics and their interactions with ocular and nasal tissues, following a dacryocystorhinostomy.
Supervisors' judgements on trainee independence with a case, based on the need for direct or more distant supervision, can generate reliable scores of trainee ability without the need for an onerous number of assessments, identify trainees performing below expectations, and track trainee progress towards independent specialist practice.
Our data do not support a significant genetic contribution of FKBP5 polymorphisms and haplotypes to affective psychosis, and the findings are inconclusive regarding their contribution to disease-related traits.
Diagnostic laparoscopy is more accurate than liver biopsy in recognizing cirrhosis in patients with chronic HCV infection. Liver biopsy is the best way to assess inflammatory grade and fibrotic stage. The invasive marker for staging, prognosis and management, and treatment outcome of chronic HCV-infected patients need further research and clinical trials. Laparoscopy should be performed for recognition of cirrhosis if this parameter is found to be of prognostic and therapeutic relevance in patients with chronic HCV infection.
Myositis after correction of thyrotoxicosis may constitute a syndrome that should be assessed for in hyperthyroid patients complaining of myalgias after starting treatment.
Health policies need to maximize the conversion of potential to effective donors and the performance of organ donation systems must be considered as an index of the quality of care.
In this limited study, we find increased risk of threshold ROP in 2 northern Pacific races. Threshold Alaskan natives had similar or better prenatal and neonatal intensive care unit variables than did threshold nonnatives; however, Alaskan native males were still at a greater risk.
While almost all attendees found the service somewhat or very helpful, distinct preferences and reactions to the service were noted for gender, patient status, and religious affiliation. This evaluation will help tailor future events to better meet the spiritual needs of cancer patients and their loved ones.
Only in populations at low risk, endothelial function measured by FMD is related to the principal cardiovascular risk factors, and to the estimated 10-year risk of CHD.
Structured laparoscopic skill training on a low cost box model trainer improves performance as assessed using the VR system. Trainees who used the box model trainer showed significant improvement compared to the control group. Box model trainers are valid tools for laparoscopic skills training and should be implemented in the comprehensive training curricula in gynaecology.
Severe gait dysfunction in patients with spastic diplegia can be improved short-term in one operative session by single-event multilevel surgery, but to preserve the early improvements many patients require additional surgery. It is unknown whether the improvements will last for decades.
The use of an aiming device for distal locking of a tibia nail lengthens operation time rather than reducing it. Fluoroscopy was still needed in about half of the cases. No difference was seen in clinical outcomes. The use of a distal aiming device to lock a tibial nail appears to have no benefit.
The MEM can intervene in a wide variety of clinical situations and a quick response is guaranteed. Moreover, in specific situations, MEM safely and efficiently permits better management of emergency vehicles. We propose that it should be dispatched mainly in the following situations: true life-threatening cases and uncertain need for an ambulance.
The representativeness of the sample is consecutively reduced because of differential attrition over the different measurement points. Despite this, bias due to attrition has a marginal impact on the point estimates of virtually all back pain related outcomes.
On the basis of these observations, we should consider the potential for neutrophil-mediated low-grade damage to xenografts emerging as a significant problem when others have been circumvented.
Early and mid-term restrictive RV physiology after repair of tetralogy of Fallot is related to the repair type. Although evidence for this physiology tends to resolve in the first few days after operation, it is highly predictive of subsequent abnormalities of RV diastolic function. Similarly, normal RV diastolic physiology without restriction in the immediate postoperative period persists in the mid-term and may be associated with the long term problems of progressive RV dilatation.
The use of a short-acting anesthetic drug, appropriate intraoperative extubation criteria, epidural analgesia, and postoperative noninvasive ventilation make early extubation of lung-transplanted patients possible and effective.
CSD induces freezing behaviour by invoking anxiety/fear via amygdala activation in freely-moving rats. Single CSD is unlikely to lead to severe pain in freely-moving rats, though the development of mild or vague pain cannot be excluded. The relevance of rat behavioural responses triggered by CSD to migraine symptoms in humans needs further evaluation.
The present study supports the theory that for ARM patients the prognosis in terms of continence depends mainly on the type of malformation and is not complicated by the association with ND. In our series neurosurgical treatments did not have any effect in improving the continence of ARM patients and a conservative management of ND did not expose the patients to the sequelae of progressive deterioration, reported elsewhere, requiring rescue neurosurgery. We believe that the correct practice of pediatric surgeons following-up ARM patients is a protocol which includes appropriate investigations to detect the presence of a SD or ND and, once these entities are detected, it is mandatory to manage the patient with a multidisciplinary team, where a conservative non-operative management is initially justified and advocated in the absence of neurosensorymotor symptoms.
Cost savings and convenience offered by RCs are attractive to urban patients, and given sufficient cost savings they are likely to seek care there. All else equal, one would require cost savings of at least $30.21 to seek care from an NP at RC rather than a physician at private office, and $83.20 to wait one day or more.
Approximately, one out of 25 mutation carriers will develop SBC during life. No specific risk factors were identified. The risk appeared to be too low to advise screening by means of an invasive burdensome procedure like double balloon enteroscopy. However, screening by a non-invasive procedure (videocapsule endoscopy) might be considered if future studies will show its cost effectiveness. In patients with unexplained abdominal complaints and/or unexplained iron deficiency anaemia SBC should be considered.
Patients are at risk if the implant is unipolar and left-sided, if they stand as close as possible to the induction cooktop, and if the pot is not concentric with the induction coil. Unipolar pacing systems can sense interference generated by leakage currents if the patient touches the pot for a long period of time. The most likely response to interference is switching to an asynchronous interference mode. Patients with unipolar pacemakers are at risk only if they are not pacemaker-dependent.
The aggressive behavior of some CCCs may be, at least in part, correlated to a lesser degree of cell differentiation and to the expression of tumor cell proteins, such as metalloproteinase 2, which are able to favor neoplastic spreading.
The CE angle changes in a predictable way with acetabular rim trimming with larger amounts of resection resulting in greater changes in the CE angle.
MUI patients had improved continence and quality of life after PVS. However, MUI patients with DO had less improvement in UDI-6 scores after PVS, despite a similar reduction to pad use/day.
The brevity, reliability, and operating characteristics of the Edinburgh Postpartum Depression Scale-3 make it an attractive postpartum depression screening tool for primary health care settings in which the goal is to detect depression, not to assess its severity. Validation by diagnostic psychiatric interview is needed.
Our study revealed the usefulness of mammaglobin and p63 cytoplasmic staining to define which tumors are worth to be screened for ETV6 rearrangement.
Resident involvement increases ORT. Cost analysis considering OR time and anesthesia time vs federal funding for Graduate Medical Education is complicated. The benefit of new programs in diminishing the shortage of surgeons cannot be underestimated.
LP-driven decision making in patients with a normal scan and suspected SAH is suboptimal in over a third of cases. Patients with a non-diagnostic LP harboured five aneurysms that merited treatment. These results support the need for secondary investigations following suspected SAH, but suggest that these could take the form of secondary imaging rather than a lumbar puncture.
Striatal dopamine deficiency without nigral cell loss is the most likely explanation for the clinical findings; other possible explanations include slowness due to comorbidities misinterpreted as bradykinesia, a tardive syndrome related to undisclosed previous neuroleptic exposure, or 'soft age-related' parkinsonian signs. These cases emphasise the need to regularly review the diagnosis in cases of suspected Parkinson's disease and highlight the need for precision in the neurological examination particularly of elderly patients. These cases may represent a distinct entity of diagnostic exclusion and may be considered one explanation for the radiological phenomenon of SWEDD (scans without evidence of dopaminergic deficit).
The AzBF showed a sustained decrease of value after a bolus injection of 50-μg OCT. A further hemodynamic response is detectable at OCT readministration after 60 minutes. The pattern of hemodynamic response to OCT may not be uniform among cirrhotics.
A low rate of recurrence of osteomyelitis after surgical treatment for osteomyelitis was achieved. Despite new episodes, our approach to managing this cohort of patients with diabetes and foot osteomyelitis achieved 98.8% limb salvage.
This prospective study does not support the hypothesis that a high concentration of serum homocysteine is a risk factor for coronary events in a population free of heart disease. However, it does suggest that mild hyperhomocystinemia predicts secondary coronary events in men with heart disease, possibly as a consequence of atherosclerotic changes.
Shorter mid-trimester cervical length is associated with higher maternal weight, younger maternal age, nulliparity and non-Caucasian ethnicity, but not with maternal height.
One interpretation of our observation of FTO risk variants linked to IRX3 expression and adipocyte size restricted to lean children, along with the decreased IRX3 expression in obese compared to lean peers, may reflect a defense mechanism for protecting body-weight, which is pertinent for lean children.
Concomitant I or II degree SI has little effect on the efficacy of tolterodine in OAB cases. Only patients with concomitant III degree SI have significantly less improvement.
Our study suggests that the presence of depressive symptoms may act as an independent risk factor for mortality in chronic hemodialysis patients. However, this finding needs further investigations.
Data from Chinese secondary-school adolescents validated findings from adult populations. Dietary patterns should be considered as important predictors of depression and anxiety among adolescents in further studies.
The FGSI scoring system was not found to be valuable in determining prognosis. However, NLR and PLR were valuable, and previous use of NLR and PLR for determining Fournier's gangrene prognosis could not be found in the English literature.
Surgeon specialization is correlated with patient satisfaction. Examining the processes underlying these associations can inform strategies to improve breast cancer care.
Findings in this pilot study show that Lactobacillus GG may improve gut barrier function and clinical status in children with mildly to moderately active, stable Crohn's disease. Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials are warranted for a final assessment of the efficacy of Lactobacillus GG in Crohn's disease.
Despite limitations, these preliminary analyses, consistent with other studies, suggest some familial relationship between schizophrenia and severe forms of affective disorder.
Previous experiences with illness and traumatic childhood experiences did not prove to be specific risk factors for the development of hypochondriasis. The importance of both experiences with illness and traumatic experiences as risk factors, as considered in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual and in established cognitive-behavioral models, does not seem to be supported empirically. Further research should therefore also consider other potential risk factors discussed in the literature.
Anterior wedge deformities can be created consistently by a 2-stage process involving initial endplate damage, followed by progressive collapse of the anterior cortex. Detecting initial endplate damage may be important to minimize vertebral deformity in patients with osteoporosis.
Students begin medical school with positive attitudes toward caring for chronically ill patients, but this perception depreciates with clinical experience, which may affect specialty decisions. Contributing factors may include adequate role modeling by residents and attendings and a perceived discrepancy in the quality of care patients receive.
Physical activity correlates with a better QoL of cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy.
Postpartum reminders greatly increased screening rates for women with gestational diabetes mellitus.
Although other authors found that QoL improves after surgical-induced weight loss, showing significant improvements on patients' perception of their health status, these findings were not confirmed in the present study. The findings show only a significant difference in bodily pain, general health and mental health perception before and after surgical intervention and preoperatively in group 1 compared to the Dutch standardized norm data. Because of small sample size (n = 9), no significant results were found in group 2 compared to the Dutch Standardized norm data. Based on earlier and present findings, further study is recommended to ascertain whether the MOS SF-36 is valid in morbidly obese patients and whether the response set has an influence on QoL studies of these patients.
The results of surveys may be influenced, to a much greater degree than previously thought, by the settings in which they are administered. Further research is needed to identify the specific influences that differ for surveys administered at home, respectively at school.
A reduction in SSS after introduction of a new flavor or after seasoning an ingested food was observed. Such a reduction has not previously been reported. This could hint at how food sensory variation leads to over-consumption.
Non-radical surgery in appropriately selected early-stage cervical cancer patients results in a low complication rate and excellent oncologic outcomes. This approach seems to be a reasonable option in well-selected patients.
Despite all known benefits of low kV CTA protocols, the use of a very low tube potential may hamper in-stent lumen visibility. A sharp kernel may be of value when evaluating the inner lumen of vascular stents.
Teaching on the ethics of paediatric clinical trials still appears to be lacking amongst medical trainees. However, there does seem to be increased willingness on the part of trainees compared to practicing medical professionals in enrolling children in clinical trials.
Cholinergic nerves were dominant in bilateral diverticular colon compared with bilateral normal colon. NANC inhibitory nerves were dominant in bilateral normal colon compared with bilateral diverticular colon. There were also no functional differences of the ENS between RCD and LCD.
Vasopressin accomplishes its hemodynamic effect, particularly on diastolic blood pressure, more rapidly, vigorously, and protractedly and to a significant degree compared with both endotracheal and endobronchial adrenaline. Evaluation of the effects of endotracheal vasopressin in a closed chest cardiopulmonary resuscitation model is recommended.
Regular use of amphetamine-like drugs could be associated with increased posterior tooth wear.
No relations between obstruction and tumour size or lymph node metastasis were found. Thus, obstructions only occur because of other factors and do not contribute to tumor growth. Utilizing effective screening programs to determine obstructions is recommended.
These findings support the pathogenic role of VSX1 gene in KC. The variable expression among the carriers, suggests the involvement of other factors in determining the final phenotype.
The HRQoL differences that exist between South Asian and Caucasian women in the general population do not appear to be replicated amongst women with PCOS. PCOS reduces HRQoL to broadly similar levels, regardless of ethnicity and differences in the normative baseline HRQoL of these groups.
These data show that MYO increases sperm motility and the number of spermatozoa retrieved after swim-up in both normozoospermic men and patients with abnormal sperm parameters. In patients with oligo-astheno-teratozoospermia, the improvement in these parameters was associated with improved sperm mitochondrial function. These findings support the use of MYO in both in vivo- and in vitro-assisted reproductive techniques.
Sagittal balance improvement is the strongest predictor of improved outcomes in patients with combined coronal and sagittal imbalance. In patients with coronal imbalance alone, improvement in coronal balance was not a factor for predicting improved functional outcomes.
To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first in the field showing no placebo effect on newborns. Further discussions are opened concerning the age when placebo effect starts.
Patients with a preoperative depression history had higher Beck Depression Inventory scores after DBS and significantly less (albeit small) improvement in pre/post-DBS change in Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale motor scores than patients without a history of depression.
Lifetime prevalence rates of the four kinds of abuse were high in all samples as measured by the NorVold Abuse Questionnaire (NorAQ), and 1/10-1/5 women in the study suffered currently from abusive experiences. In multivariate analyses prevalence of abuse was consistently associated with sociodemographic but not to sample variables.
For experienced users, dermoscopy is more accurate than clinical examination for the diagnosis of melanoma in a pigmented skin lesion.
Retroperitoneal fat is similar to peritoneal fat, but differs from subcutaneous fat, in terms of its relationship with metabolic syndrome and incident hypertension. Retroperitoneal fat area should be included in the measurement of visceral fat for cardio-metabolic studies in human.
Obesity conferred a significant survival advantage in our PD population. Obese patients should therefore not be discouraged from receiving PD purely on the basis of BMI. Moreover, maintaining a higher-than-average BMI to preserve "nutritional reserve" may help to reduce the mortality and morbidity rates associated with PD.
The findings indicate a 'risk in scarcity' effect for New Zealand cyclists such that risk profiles of cyclists are likely to deteriorate if fewer people use a bicycle and more use a car.
Greater pain acceptance may help individuals to focus their efforts to adapt to their pain anxiety only when it is higher, leaving self-regulatory capacity to cope with additional challenges to exercise adherence (eg, busy schedule).
Surgery takes longer for obese patients, but blood loss as recorded by change in hematocrit is lower. Major complications were rare and similar between weight groups, as were infectious complications.
PWA reduction is a sensitive marker with a high PPV for the detection of EEG-MA associated with respiratory events during NREM sleep in stable OHS patients treated by NIV. In this situation, PWA could be used to improve scoring of hypopneas and allow an appropriate assessment of sleep fragmentation related to respiratory events.
Wait-and-see seems justified in case of negative USgFNAC. Strict follow-up with USgFNAC is required. SN identification and aspiration is feasible but did not improve lymph node selection.
Despite implementation of ATV legislation regarding helmet use and minimal legal age, a lot of our patients did not obey these rules. This study demonstrates that strong legislation did not have a real impact on ATV morbidity in children. It is essential to develop strategies to enforce ATV users to respect legislation.
The results of this study, in line with previous works, showed that the lubrication of urethral catheters with 0.1% gentamicin cream is not an effective alternative to reduce significant bacteriuria and prevent urinary infection in patients who undergo clean intermittent catheterization.
From a social perspective, the project seemed cost effective, compared with medical interventions. Since both modalities attracted different groups of smokers, cost effectiveness comparisons may incorporate the comparison of apples with oranges, and referral to either modality should be based on smokers' characteristics and the societal value placed on health as well.
With the numbers available, vancomycin alone during elective primary TJA does not seem to result in a higher rate of subsequent deep SSI. However, patients who received vancomycin alone demonstrated reduced odds of Gram-positive organisms and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Vancomycin monotherapy can be used without increasing the risk of deep SSI; however, it should only be used in patients who require vancomycin, eg, anaphylactic reactions to penicillin resulting from the potential for the emergence of organism resistance and nephrotoxicity. Future studies are needed that use registry and large database studies to refute or confirm the preliminary findings of this study and determine if vancomycin monotherapy influences the risk of periprosthetic joint infection.
Stereotactic biopsies have a low risk of symptomatic hemorrhages. Intraoperative bleeding is a surveillance parameter of hemorrhage on CT. Therefore, routine postoperative CT may be restricted to patients who show intraoperative bleeding.
The "12-week stopping rule" includes two different categories of responders considered candidates for maintained therapy, but the probability of obtaining SVR is very low in patients with HCV-RNA that is still detectable at this time of treatment. We suggest that, in these partial responders, the prolongation of therapy should be decided on an individual basis.
Just as celebrity diagnoses promote cancer screening, they may also promote primary prevention. Discovery of this dynamic suggests the public should be further encouraged to consider primary (in addition to the usual secondary) cancer prevention around celebrity diagnoses, though more cases, cancers, and prevention behaviors must be explored.
Physicians' responses to a P4P program with a small maximum bonus do not differ by frequency of bonus payment.
In initially transplantable HCC-cirr patients, ITT survival was better in group PLT compared with group LR. SLT was feasible in only a third of patients who recurred after LR. Post SLT, short and long-term outcomes were comparable with PLT. Better patient selection for the "resection first" approach and early detection of recurrence may improve outcomes of the SLT strategy.
Increased utilization of bariatric surgery in Florida is associated with overall favorable short-term outcomes. Older age and male gender were associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Surgeon and hospital procedure volume have an inverse relationship with in-hospital complications and mortality.
Older patients and patients with low testosterone levels at baseline are risk factors for late urinary and rectal toxicities, possibly through impaired tissue repair.
Based on these findings, we recommend that clinicians perform measurements of static foot posture using the same standing foot placement between sessions to ensure a high level of measurement consistency.
There is a relatively high prevalence of HIV in clients compared to national estimates, and a substantial proportion of them act as a bridge for HIV/STI transmission between FSWs and the general population in Escuintla. Given that this is fuelling the current HIV epidemic, preventive interventions addressing this hard-to-reach group are urgently required.
When using dose plans made according to a surrogate urethra the dose to the true urethra might be too high to be acceptable. If the true urethra is not visualized, severe damage could easily develop in a significant number of patients.
Although left ventricular performance is found to be normal by conventional echocardiographic methods, it is found to be impaired when Tei index and tissue Doppler parameters are used. Cardiac autonomic function is also impaired in ACT patients. As a result of these cardiac changes, medical treatment may be considered earlier, even at the euthyroid stage.
Cervical elongation is found in one third of women with POP, with the extent of elongation increasing with greater degrees of uterine descent.
All scores have reasonable discrimination, but underestimate future events. The CRM showed the strongest correlation between observed and predicted risk with the least amount of scatter from the line of best fit. The CRM, when adjusted by the calibration factor, provides the most accurate method of risk prediction.
Comorbidity and lower socioeconomic status appear to be more important predictors of late mortality after cardiac surgery than payer status, which does not have a significant impact on survival.
To avail ourselves of the high quality of BRI in patient treatment the additional determination of (Ox) is required.
SunSmart status is not consistently associated with better hat-wearing behavior. The protective nature of hats and the proportion of school students and adult role-models wearing them could be improved, possibly by offering incentives to schools that promote sun-safety.
Telomerase assays did not add any additional information to FNA alone. Inflammatory changes associated with benign and malignant lesions can possess telomerase activity independent of the malignant state.
We concluded that using CO(2) when administering a DCBE after a screening sigmoidoscopy was useful for relieving abdominal discomfort following the examination; furthermore, it did not impair the diagnostic ability of the DCBE.
Combined with serial laser excision, mumps vaccine positively influences induction of remission in children with RRP. The mechanisms of this effect are unclear, but the treatment is readily available, inexpensive, and has a low risk of adverse effects.
The hygienist identified the causal agent in almost all subjects with OA. In contrast, the clinician failed to identify potential exposures to sensitizers in>60% of the negative SIC subjects, which may have resulted in some subjects being misdiagnosed as not having OA.
Reported opinions suggest an overall appreciation for markers of "Damage Control," although clinical equipoise exists regarding the preferred technique and a frequent early use of mesh. These results highlight the necessity for further research but suggest challenges in defining a common standard for multicenter trials.
Young women who were allocated to caseload midwifery at booking, and/or were receiving caseload midwifery at the time of admission for birth, were less likely to experience preterm birth and neonatal intensive care unit admission.
Increases in managed care market share had limited or no effect on the quality of care for cancer patients. Concerns that increases in managed care would have large negative spillover effects on the quality of cancer care appear to be unfounded; however, the potential for managed care to stimulate improved quality throughout the medical care system have not yet been realized.
This clinical trial suggests that IPC is an appropriate and even sufficient first-phase intervention for handling previously untreated mild to moderate depression in primary health care.
Botulinum toxin appears to have an atypical contraction effect on the internal anal sphincter in low-pressure (usually anterior) fissures. This may be accounted for by blockade of acetylcholine released at parasympathetic nerve terminals and the sympathetic ganglion (relaxation). Low pressure fissures may be physiologically different from high-pressure fissures.
The results of this study are not consistent with monotonic loading as a cause of fracture in at least a proportion of cases, but suggest a stress-related aetiology. Increased thickness of the subchondral bone plate may reflect (failed) adaptive changes that precede fracture.
The participants' preferences for postoperative maintenance therapies were widely distributed, and no clinical or demographic factors predicted these preferences. This emphasizes the need for effective communication between physician and patient in order to select the treatment options most consistent with a patient's informed preferences.
The use of helicopter scene flights from the scene of injury for patients with a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head provides no medical advantage to the victims, but provides a high-yield source of desperately needed organs. The prompt establishment of an airway in the field may prolong patient survival long enough to allow evaluation for organ donation. Helicopter transport of these patients is justified only as a means of rapidly delivering the personnel capable of providing advanced airway skills to the scene. Patients requiring CPR in the field after isolated gunshot wounds to the head will not live long enough to become organ donor candidates; therefore, there is no benefit to helicopter transport for these patients.
These are the first data demonstrating the prevalence of PIR across Western nations. PIR is strongly linked to positive and negative insulin beliefs, and may also reflect a broader discomfort with medications and with diabetes in general. Of note, however, PIR is a marker of behavioral intent only; it is not known whether this predicts actual behavior at the time when insulin is prescribed. When addressing patients who are reluctant to initiate insulin therapy, clinicians may find it valuable to inquire about their beliefs about insulin and their current medications.
The present study identifies for the first time a link between periodontal indices and wall shear stress, suggesting that an alteration of hemodynamic profile might contribute to atherosclerosis in subjects with periodontal disease.
Our findings could suggest that α-synuclein-associated oligodendroglial pathology may lead to neuronal dysfunction sufficient to cause clinical symptoms before overt neuronal loss in MSA. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
Despite the perioperative difficulties seen with CP patients, the majority of the patient/parents were satisfied with the results of the spinal deformity surgery. Functional improvements were limited but 8% to 40% of the patients still perceived the results as improved. The reason for less than optimal satisfaction appears to be due to less correction of the major curve, greater residual major Cobb angle, hyperlordosis of the lumbar spine after surgery, and late postoperative complications.
Among the examined mediators of ketamine׳s antidepressant response, only dissociative side effects predicted a more robust and sustained antidepressant. Prospective, mechanistic investigations are critically needed to understand why intra-infusion dissociation correlates with a more robust antidepressant efficacy of ketamine.
Patients with a false-positive urine test result do not generally have a greater risk of tumor recurrence or progression than patients with a true-negative result. In our series, only patients with false-positive 486p3/12 test result had a higher recurrence rate. Our findings do not justify a more aggressive adjuvant treatment or surveillance for patients with false-positive urine tests.
This study reveals the perceptions of left-handed surgeons in adapting to a right-handed world. Early laterality related mentoring in medical school and during surgical residency with provision of left-handed instruments might reduce the inconveniences of left-handed surgeons learning.
The strain phase is redundant and we propose that it can be eliminated from a routine MRD protocol. This will help streamline the examination, simplify patient instructions, and reduce both imaging and reporting time.
Based on the methods we used, we could not detect meaningful differences between subjects with and without somatic delusions. This suggests that the presence of irrational somatic ideation does not define a distinct clinical subgroup among patients with psychotic depression. This finding needs to be replicated.
Our findings suggest that, for steroid-dependent Crohn's disease which has failed to respond to thiopurines, long-term methotrexate remains effective in fewer than one in three patients.
In this retrospective review of hip replacement surgery patients, BMI classification was a predictor of early postoperative complications. Although the exact underlying mechanisms are still not clear, these results are consistent with the obesity paradox, in which obesity or its correlates provide some form of protection.
Fluctuations in Pco 2 within a short period may be more significantly associated with severe IVH than the mere presence of hypercapnia.
Our interim analysis showed that elective repair of subclinical stenosis in AVFs with Qa>500 mL/min cost-effectively reduces the risk of thrombosis and access loss in comparison with the approach of the Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (KDOQI) guidelines, raising the question of whether the currently recommended criteria for assessing and treating stenosis should be reconsidered.
Liposuction of the abdominal wall and/or flanks is followed by breast enlargement in a significant number of patients (40 percent), a risk that is significantly higher when compared with patients who have undergone abdominoplasty only. Patients should be informed about the possibility and risk of breast enlargement following liposuction of the abdominal wall in particular.
In molar regions with periodontal destruction, Schneiderian membrane thickening occurred, particularly in combination with small bone layers above the root tips or periapical lesions.
Patient symptomatology and self-assessment of complete abortion alone are moderately useful in identifying medical abortion failure. An objective measure of complete abortion, such as a pregnancy test, is still required.
The scales showed their reliability and validity. They could be employed for assessing adolescent attitudes to these priority intervention areas, for carrying out studies on their mediating role on adopting behaviour, and for designing and evaluating health programs.
Extrinsic motivation results in a more extensive use of e-learning units in an undergraduate radiology internship when compared with intrinsic motivation. The choice of the teaching strategy has a bigger influence on learning outcomes than the type of motivation, highlighting the need for qualified medical teachers.
This study indicates a significant correlation between age and tumor location with Bax/Bcl-2 expression ratio, suggesting predictive value as a potential molecular marker of colorectal cancer.
Stenosis and regurgitation of the RV-PA conduit in adults and children following Ross AVR is infrequent. The most logical reasons for the superior performance of the homograft in Ross patients are: (1) orthotopic positioning, (2) older age of implant, and (3) the ability to significantly oversize the homograft in Ross patients.
Unit cost information should be collected from as many hospitals as possible. Multivariate hospital cost studies are needed to identify important cost drivers that will assist with hospital selection in the future.
PET can be used as a supplementary method for experimental determination of whole-body volume and total body fat in tumour patients. The fat content can be used to calculate the LBM and to determine body weight-independent SUVs (SUV(LBM)).
Breast milk is infectious; yet, breastfeeding, even by mothers with high infectivity, is not associated with demonstrable risk of infantile CHB infection, provided that the infants have been vaccinated against HBV at birth.
We identified a substantial increase in participation rates postwaiver of written informed consent and HIPAA authorization in a minimal-risk survey. The need for written documentation for minimal-risk surveys may negatively impact recruitment of blacks, women, and patients<75 years old.
Although, following the first year after surgery, no differences in treatment groups were observed in terms of weight loss, 5 years following surgery, patients who received banded surgery maintained better weight loss and had less weight regain compared to the non-banded group. These results suggest that laparoscopic banded gastric bypass using a silastic ring was effective in maintaining weight loss on the long term, while the complication rate was low. The banded gastric bypass is regarded by us as the new gold standard.
Despite the suggestion of morphological variants in keratoconus, the results of the present study suggest a common cone aetiology.
Although PEP are well protected against most vaccine-preventable diseases, many are not receiving annual TB screens nor influenza vaccines. The CDC guidelines are not being routinely followed by PEP.
The British public appear to be aware that not all cancers are equally fatal.
This study demonstrates the patchy appearance of villous atrophy that occurs within the duodenum. A targeted duodenal bulb biopsy from either the 9- or 12-o'clock position in addition to distal duodenal biopsies may improve diagnostic yields by detecting the most severe villous atrophy within the duodenum.
Since the conventional clinicopathological data seems not sufficient to define the risk of developing metastasis in breast cancer patients with ≥4 axillary lymph node involvement, all of them should undergo full staging examinations until new parameters based on genomic level are defined. Staging procedures need modification for high risk breast cancer patients.
Tear film abnormalities are present in a large number of people staying within the metropolis of New Delhi who have apparently normal eyes. Air pollution over a long period of time could possibly be associated with their causation.
NMES, within a rehabilitation protocol for patients with knee osteoarthritis, is effective for improving pain, function and activities of daily living, in comparison with a group that received an orientation program. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION ACTRN012607000357459.
Increasing misclassification of MI-AHA by the HMDC may be due to reluctance by clinicians to diagnose MI based on relatively small increases in troponin levels. These influences are likely to continue. Monitoring MI using AHA criteria will require calibration of commercially available troponin tests and agreement on lower diagnostic thresholds for epidemiological studies. Declining rates of MI-AHA ck are consistent with long-standing trends in MI in Western Australia, suggesting that neither MI-HMDC nor MI-AHA reflect the true underlying population trends in MI.
Thresholds for contrast-enhanced diagnostic US-induced injury of the microvasculature appear to be minimally affected by anesthetic methods.
A formal pathology rotation for obstetric residents can improve knowledge base, but the usefulness of this knowledge in clinical practice is dubious.
Preoperative administration of beta-blockers attenuates the hyperdynamic circulation in LT patients; this is clearly seen through a reduction in intraoperative CO, CI, and HR. This decreased hyperdynamic state was not shown to relate to outcomes in any of the variables except for a higher ICNARC score reported in the group treated with beta-blockers.
Routine TTE imaging is usually correct in predicting ATH on TEE, but with modest error, it should generally not be relied on as a definitive test for ATH. Adequate image quality improves the correlation of TEE and TTE grading of ABD ATH, and more severe ATH on TTE is more predictive of ATH on TEE.
In our study, we identified several patients with RCC diagnosed shortly after surgery, which raised the possibility that this was present before transplantation. With transplant recipients at increased risk of development of RCC and early detection key in the management of RCC, there appears to be a role for native renal radiological screening for patients undergoing renal transplantation.
We conclude that mitral valve repair is preferable to mitral valve replacement when possible, in patients with complications of endocarditis, as repair results in a lower hospital mortality and an improved long-term survival.
The depression-question from SHC identified most of the depressed patients measured by HSCL-25 in low back pain patients, whiplash patients, and disability pensioners, and can therefore be considered an indicator of depression. Satisfactory sensitivity and specificity were detected, as well as similar responsiveness as determined by the ROC analyses. The results indicate that one simple question could replace a whole questionnaire (HSCL-25) in identifying depressive patients.
Absent or ineffective contraception is common in women attending an inner city genitourinary medicine clinic. Immediate provision of contraceptive education, advice and supplies is welcomed by patients.
A special follow-up needs to be carried out on all children diagnosed with RP in primary care, since the possibility of presenting with CA is higher in these cases.
BIPAP ventilation with PEEP levels up to 10 mbar does not affect systemic hemodynamics. Furthermore, neither venous outflow nor portal venous or hepatic artery inflow of the liver are impaired at PEEP levels up to 10 mbar immediately following liver transplantation. Although these results suggest that PEEP ventilation up to 10 mbar does not affect liver hemodynamics, further studies are needed to determine whether these findings could be confirmed for a longer ventilation period with PEEP.
Routine histopathological analysis did not help in the management of any of the cases. Therefore, selective utilization of the already burdened histopathology section of the hospital would be more cost effective without affecting the patient outcome.
Serum oestradiol levels of women receiving implants should be kept in the range of 300-500 pmol/L. Higher levels appear to be associated with the development of psychological symptoms which could be classified as features of dependence.
In this study, we showed concordance between the mini-PET and original PET. The 3.86% mini-PET is simple and fast methods to assess free water transport. This also gives information about total UF and small solute transports and it is in good agreement with the original PET.
The program described is cost-effective and environmentally beneficial.
Sleep quantity and quality were significantly improved with PCV compared to low-PSV. Nocturnal respiratory muscles rest through PCV is recommended to improve sleep in ICU patients with acute-on-chronic respiratory failure.
ED staff had poor behaviours for identifying patients and labelling pathology specimens before intervention. These safety behaviours were considered an assumed skill. Education alone improved critical KBs markedly that was further augmented by the armband scanner. The cost to adopt education alone is relatively low compared to the addition of armband scanner technology.
The trend toward more conservative treatment in the elderly still occurs in our common practice even with improving surgical techniques. In our study, we suggest that pertinent surgical strategies for acute aortic dissection are necessary to improve the outcome in elderly patients.
The findings indicate that alterations in endogenous retinal or scleral FGF-2 levels are not associated with changes in scleral remodelling in this mammalian model of myopia. However, the reversible changes found in FGFR-1 expression in the sclera of myopic eyes mean that an indirect role for FGF-2 in the control of scleral remodelling is implicated. The anteroposterior difference found in scleral FGF-2 concentration indicates a role for this cytokine in the control of normal scleral growth and development and, presumably, eye size.
Maternal serum PTX3 levels were found to be significantly related to high blood glucose levels. This may be an indicator of vascular pathology in GDM around the time of an oral glucose tolerance test.
While medical students pursuing careers in surgery have equal exposure to general surgery, their anticipated subspecialty field highly correlated with their operative exposure to that field. Thus, medical school surgical rotations appear to highly influence subspecialty choice.
The majority of women expressed no preference to either gender of their obstetrician and gynaecologists, but significant proportion of the remainder would prefer to see a female doctor when given the choice. Although women gave a variety of subjective reasons for this, demographically it appears that women who are less educated with lower income and being non-white are more likely to prefer to see a female doctor.
The occurrence of child death is not unusual in rural Nigeria. Multiple frameworks are needed to account for differentials in child mortality. After controlling for other explanatory variables such as age, wealth status, region and place of delivery of recent birth, this study found that household headship remained a strong predictor of child mortality. Recommendations are provided according to the complex interplay of socio-cultural, economic, and situational factors affecting the survival of children in rural Nigeria.
Skin metastases may represent the first clinical evidence of impending recurrence or distant metastasis. The development of skin metastasis is associated with a poor prognosis. Current treatment options are limited in their efficacity.
This study confirmed that the management and mortality of NSTEMIs in the public health sector in the Western Cape, South Africa is not influenced by geography, but rather by the level of service available in the hospital of first presentation.
These results illustrate the sensitivity of the mesothelium to mechanical trauma, the possibility of confusing trauma with genuine pathology, and, hence, the necessity of employing a trauma-free method of biopsy collection, such as the technique described here.
The high prevalence of overweight and obesity combined with suboptimal dietary behaviors highlight the need to address both children's and parents' lifestyle habits in pediatric weight management.
The present study did not demonstrate a statistical difference in grading or staging between the group that showed "minimal signs" on prior mammograms versus normal prior mammograms. Microcalcification seems to be the most common characteristic seen in the missed cancer and a more aggressive management approach is suggested for breast microcalcifications.
In line with published reviews of conventional multivariable analysis versus propensity score matching, Cox regressions on matched and unmatched samples produced similar estimates of treatment effects for non-leisure activity, but the estimates from matched regressions were usually smaller.
Rich collateral circulation distal to CTO in LADs can potentially compete with graft flow, although the competition seems not to affect clinical outcomes probably due to the regression of collaterals surmounted by the graft flow. Rentrop grade is shown to certainly reflect the degree of collateral haemodynamic circulation distal to CTO and especially important to evaluate intraoperative graft flow appropriately, considering the possible phenomenon of graft flow competition.
Among post-CABG complications, patients with different levels of COPD based on STS definition, more frequently developed respiratory failure. This finding may imply the prognostic value of preoperative pulmonary function test for determining COPD severity and postoperative morbidities.
Routine colonoscopy after CT-proven uncomplicated diverticulitis seems to be unnecessary, but colonoscopy should be performed for patients with a diagnosis of diverticular abscess.
Acidosis and hyperphosphataemia are associated with apparent increased erythropoietin dosing requirements. While this study did not evaluate the mechanism of such requirements and indeed many mechanisms might be possible, a rightward shift in the oxygen-haemoglobin dissociation curve resulting in down-regulation of erythropoietin receptors is considered consistent with the data and present knowledge.
The results suggest that in patients with distal radius fractures, fixation of unstable DRUJs in neutral for 6 weeks does not have an advantage over non-fixation.
AMSTAR showed good psychometric properties, comparable to prior findings in systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials. AMSTAR can be applied to systematic reviews of non-randomized studies, although there are some item specific issues users should be aware of. Revisions and extensions of AMSTAR might be helpful.
Compared to cTACE, TAELE showed a better toxicity profile with similar 36-month survival and similar one-month anti-tumor effects, which makes it better tolerated by patients, especially in case of more than one treatment.
Symptoms of depression and anxiety have implications for disease activity, as measured via the DAS28, primarily due to their influence on tender joints and patient global assessment. These findings have implications for treatment decision-making as inflated DAS28 despite well controlled inflammatory disease markers may indicate significant psychological morbidity and related non-inflammatory pain, rather than true disease activity.
Our results show that the 4G/4G PAI-1 genotype appears to be associated with an elevated relative risk of developing arterial hypertension, regardless of PAI-1 levels and other hypertension-related factors, in a representative sample of the Spanish population.
The rigid rule of systematically performing secondary APR after LE for rectal carcinoma when one or more pathologic selection criteria are not met should perhaps be reconsidered, especially for tumors exceeding 3 cm in diameter, moderately differentiated tumors, and in incidences when a mucinous component is present. However, in cases of vessel, nerve or muscular invasion, secondary APR is probably the best choice for cure.
H9N2 AIV isolated from outbreaks in a broiler farm can easily infect dogs and infected animals shed the virus. Because many Asian countries are facing frequent outbreaks of H9N2 infection in the poultry industry, dogs could be a potentially important source of virus transmission within and between poultry farms.
Trochanteric fractures may be treated effectively with PFNA devices or Intertan nails. During the healing period, the rates of reverse displacement of the proximal screw, shortening of the proximal femur, and decrease in the varus angle of the proximal femur were significantly higher in the PFNA group than in the Intertan group. Surgical technique, implant positioning, and the choice of implant play roles in the successful treatment of trochanteric fractures.
Our data support the hypothesis that in CM-enhanced procedures not only contrast materials but also a broad range of other factors may also induce hypersensitivity reactions. Therefore, the number of CM-induced hypersensitivity is smaller than initially suspected. The knowledge of the cause of a reaction is essential to effectively prevent its recurrence and to improve safety aspects in patients undergoing CM-injection. Larger trials should be performed to more specifically assess alternate causes in patients who acquire hypersensitivity reactions in CM-enhanced diagnostic procedures.
Noncentral obesity is not metabolically benign; BMI as an overall measure of obesity is as important as, and sometimes more important than, WHR in predicting metabolic effects. The recognition of the epidemiological significance of the WHR as a centrality measure of obesity should not divert attention from the metabolic risk status of noncentrally obese individuals who require continued health education to reduce weight.
High-resolution MRI may be a better way than US in predicting the clinical events caused by carotid vulnerable lesions.
Actigraphy-assessed napping and IL-6 are associated but the direction of the relationship remains to be determined. Overall, napping is an important factor to consider to better understand the relationship between short sleep and cardiovascular health in adolescents. (PsycINFO Database Record
According to our results the insufficient acceptance and the low effectivity of the SnorEx-prosthesis preclude large-scale indication for OSA patients. The prosthesis should not be prescribed without contacting a sleep lab.
Using the present parameters, the CP over diagnosed the number of CAPD patients at risk of malnutrition. However, the CP improves time management and rationalisation of dietetic activity by screening abnormal biochemistry.
A combination of running exercise and calcium intake would appear to stimulate the bone mass of women endurance runners at lower-body sites but at the expense of bone mass at upper-body sites.
S. mediterranea is an old species that is sparsely distributed in a harsh habitat, which is probably the consequence of the migration of the Corsica-Sardinia block. This species probably adapted to temperate climates in the middle of a changing Mediterranean climate that eventually became dry and hot. These data also suggest that in the mainland localities of Europe and Africa, sexual individuals of S. mediterranea are being replaced by asexual individuals that are either conspecific or are from other species that are better adapted to the Mediterranean climate.
Different prognostic weighting of four predictive factors caused intrascore heterogeneity. Lower CLIP scores were associated with increased differences in intrascore. In conclusion, the CLIP staging scoring system is a reasonable ordinal scale, but the clinician must be aware of the heterogeneity of mortality risk within a given score.
The type, the number, and the combinations of cardiovascular risk factors and the predictors for adverse outcome are different in the 2 age groups. Our observations indicate that people 75 years or older with small number of cardiovascular risk factors can undergo CEA with the same risk of perioperative stroke and death as the younger patients.
Reimbursement systems seem to influence radiotherapy practice. One should therefore aim to develop reimbursement criteria that pursue to deliver, not only the best qualitative, but also the most cost-effective treatments to the patients.
An intraindividual learning effect that was higher in inexperienced surgeons could be demonstrated. The learning effect was reduced by half after 500 vitreoretinal procedures while the primary anatomical success rates were not correlated to the number of vitreoretinal procedures.
Patients with an elevated level of both CEA and CA19-9 in stage II of colorectal cancer have a significantly poorer prognosis than those with normal levels of these markers. We recommend adding both CEA and CA19-9 to the current staging system.
In RGCs, tumor size is an independent prognostic factor and a modified TNM system based on tumor size accurately predicts survival.
In contrast to our hypothesis, NMDA receptor inhibition by CO(2) and isoflurane is additive. Possibly, CO(2) acidification modulates a pH-sensitive loop on the NMDA receptor that in turn alters glycine binding affinity on the GluN1 subunit. However, ketamine plus either CO(2) or H(+) synergistically inhibits NMDA receptor currents. Drugs acting via different mechanisms can thus exhibit additive or synergistic receptor effects. Additivity may not robustly indicate commonality between molecular anesthetic mechanisms.
Elastography in breast lesions showed a higher specificity and a lower sensitivity in comparison with B-mode sonography. Elastography may be beneficial in BI-RADS 3 lesions and in lipomatous involution.
This study confirms earlier findings that physical activity decreases the risk for left-sided colon cancer, but also suggests that occupational factors influence the risk of colon and rectal cancer in different ways.
Women who delay further education until they are aged between their 40s and 60s can improve or maintain their physical functioning but may have missed the critical time to minimise depressive symptomatology. Public health policy should focus on encouraging women to upgrade their educational qualifications earlier in life in order to potentially offset the negative associations between their initial lower socio-economic position class of origin and their mental health.
While MAPs are considered useful in caring for patients in need of assistance, there are many barriers to their use. Pharmaceutical companies should address these barriers. Limitations include a low response rate (about 10%).
Of the risk factors reviewed age, BMI, and prior history of GDM were predictive of GDM in the current pregnancy. Age 30-34 had an odds ratio (OR) of 1.95, 95% confidence interval (CI) [1.25,3.05]and over 35 had an OR 3.87 CI [2.12,7.05]. BMI over 30 had an OR 1.95, CI [1.25,3.05]and prior GDM had an OR 2.82 CI [1.55,5.13]. The combination of age and BMI had a significant OR, but not a significant increase over individual risk factors.
These findings, by demonstrating an apparent ability of the placenta to store iodine in a concentration-dependent manner, suggest a hitherto undetected role for the placenta. Whether placental iodine has a role in protecting the foetus from inadequacies in maternal dietary iodine intake is as yet unknown.
Progressive dilatation of the aortic arch leading to reoperation after repair of ascending aortic aneurysm in patients with bicuspid aortic valve is uncommon. A selective approach to transverse aortic arch replacement is appropriate.
The conventional liver transplant technique had significantly better results than the piggyback technique in terms of length of stay in the intensive care unit and duration of mechanical ventilation.
A number of factors were identified which may be useful in designing healthcare interventions in young black Caribbean men and these differed little from those in other ethnic groups. The healthcare intervention should include advice on reducing the number of partners and increasing the use of condoms.
These findings raise concern that AIP is associated with an elevated risk of malignancy and should prompt additional studies.
The current study is the first to demonstrate that the CHAT successfully discriminates 2-year-old children with autism from those with other developmental disorders. In addition, the increased sensitivity of the Denver Criteria in children with developmental disabilities may improve its usefulness as a screening tool for community-based early-diagnostic teams and general practitioners.
RBC plus tinidazole and either amoxicillin or clarythromycin can be used as second-line therapies after failure of the Maastricht triple therapy.
The difference between endoscopic findings in cases and controls was statistically significant. Severe inflammation and erosion existed in patients with laryngeal cancer that could be due to increased acid secretion. Our study supported the hypothesis that gastric acid and pepsin play a role in laryngeal cancer.
The preceding work ability and job involvement seem to channel personal goal pursuit in retirement. Thus, sustaining employees' work ability and job involvement are not only essential for developing employees' ability to cope with work demands but also for their functional capacity in their later stages of life, such as in retirement.
The relation between pain and pain related fear and FCE performance is weak or non-existent in patients with CLBP.
The EDD is a valuable diagnostic technique for confirming tracheal intubation. Results using EDD agree with results using capnography; in 6% of instances there is a slow reinflation; and where there is no capnography, such as on hospital wards, EDD may be a useful diagnostic tool.
Within this sample, recall of the current, voluntary warning labels on Australian alcohol products was non-existent, overall awareness was low, and few people reported visiting the DrinkWise website. It appears that current warning labels fail to effectively transmit health messages to the general public.
Nursing students reported that the simulations were educationally, professionally, and clinically relevant. The cost benefit of using DVD simulations as an alternative and potential replacement to elements of nursing clinical placements should be investigated further.
Outcomes of sSCC are comparable with other laryngeal cancers when managed with modern therapeutic options. Larynx-preservation protocols could be a suitable option in T1-T2 (RT or chemo-RT) and selected T3 sSCC patients (induction CT).
There was no significant difference between the retention of the flexible fiber-bundle dowel system and that of the rigid prefabricated fiber dowel system. Decreasing the volume of luting cement around the flexible dowels did not have a significant effect on the axial retention of the restorations.
The FWS and SGA represent the current standard of cosmetic outcomes measures; however, when subjected to scrutiny they display relatively unpredictable agreement even among plastic surgeons. Compared to the FWS, the SGA has a more acceptable user concordance, especially among plastic surgeons accustomed to using such scales. The interobserver variability of FWS and SGA scoring underlines the need to explore objective, quantitative cosmetic outcomes measures.
A more appropriate measure of pulmonary artery growth is the indexed cross-sectional area of the lower lobe branch of the right and left pulmonary arteries, which is less likely to be altered surgically with systemic-pulmonary shunts, pulmonary artery repair, and the bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis itself. Pulmonary artery indices, including the lower lobe index, do not change significantly after bidirectional cavopulmonary shunt during medium-term follow-up and do not influence the Fontan outcome.
This study in children contradicts previous findings in adults. As no obvious reason can be identified for this discrepancy, further research (particularly a longitudinal study) is recommended to clarify whether birth variable data may predict melatonin production in certain circumstances during or after puberty.
Hepatobiliary phase imaging may improve small lesion detection (<1 cm) and characterization of lesions in general, in MRI of the cirrhotic liver with Gd-EOB-DTPA.
A symptom-based diagnostic approach based on extensive clinical patient files may provide a special dimension to improve the reliability of psychiatric classification.
Our findings support the Disease Step Rating Scale is an observational tool that can be used by health professionals to categorize people with MS, with the categories reflective of statistically significant and clinically meaningful differences in gait and balance performance.
The current data has suggested that half of the patients with progressive, regrowing NFPAs exhibit low MGMT expression and are potential candidates for treatment with TMZ. These findings provide a rationale for the use of TMZ as an alternative treatment approach in this subgroup if conventional therapy, including reoperation, radiosurgery, and radiotherapy, fails.
In both CAP and NHAP, MDR bacterial infections were uncommon. Most cases of NHAP were caused by unknown etiology or viral pathogens. We suggest that NHAP should not be treated as nosocomial infection. The empirical treatment of broad-spectrum antibiotics in NHAP should be reserved for patients with severe pneumonia or at high risk of MDR bacterial infection.
Antenatal use of the Epi-No(®) device is unlikely to be clinically beneficial in the prevention of intrapartum levator ani damage, or anal sphincter and perineal trauma.
This study supports the hypothesis that distributed microscopic intramural virtual electrodes contribute to rapid activation of the ventricular wall during defibrillation.
Poor quality of sleep is related to cognitive impairment among elderly living in elderly homes and this problem should be taken in consideration among this group of elders.
Several plain radiographic findings in symptomatic discoid lateral meniscus in children were significantly different from those in normal control. These findings would be helpful in screening tool of discoid lateral meniscus for children.
Low ADC values correlate with poor survival in malignant astrocytomas independent of tumor grade.
The sedimentation sign is a new measurement tool that can enable physicians to objectively assess and quantify spinal stenosis. The sign is most often present in patients who have clinically significant lumbar stenosis and require surgery.
Underestimation of actual number of suicides could be assumed, given the similarities with the group of undetermined deaths in both seasonality and marital status. As some differences were obtained between the two groups in sex and age, we may conclude that some cases of older women suicides are concealed within the undetermined deaths group.
In this sample, stretching or use of weight training machines is associated with increased risk of developing low back pain compared to use of free weights, callisthenics or exercise classes.
We did not replicate the reported associations between the c.1465G-->A variant and susceptibility to TLE. We suggest that the initial positive association may be due to undetected population stratification; the importance of genomic control is emphasized. Population-specific effects also may play a role, and we highlight the need to demonstrate an in vitro functional effect to give biologic meaning to any proposed association.
Youth overweight conveyed a long-term positive impact on several aspects of adult HRQL, and this impact may be both direct and indirect through BMI change and the effect on adult BMI. Youth PA had no long-term impact on adult HRQL.
Biodegradable, electrospun, nanofibre, polycaprolactone prostheses are promising because in vitro they maintain their mechanical properties (regardless of PTX loading), and in vivo show good patency, reendothelialize, and remodel with autologous cells. PTX loading delays endothelialization and cellular ingrowth. Conversely, it reduces neointima formation until the end point of our study and thus may be an interesting option for small caliber vascular grafts.
Although STN-DBS constitutes a therapeutic advance for severely disabled patients with Parkinson's disease, we should keep in mind that this surgical procedure may contribute to the inducing of apathy. Our observation raises the issue of the direct influence of STN- DBS on the limbic system by diffusion of stimulus to the medial limbic compartment of STN.
CMC injections can be performed accurately in the office setting, without the need for radiologic guidance, in patients with moderate to severe CMC OA.
The use of written information about the use of inhalers for patients with COPD significantly improved utilization to a degree similar to that obtained with verbal explanations.
In obese patients eGFR is not predictive for cardiovascular events.
In transforming low-grade glioma, susceptibility-weighted MR perfusion imaging can demonstrate significant increases in rCBV up to 12 months before contrast enhancement is apparent on T1-weighted MR images.
This study further strengthens the hypothesis that repetitive trauma to the palmar fascia predisposes to the development of Dupuytren's disease in men.
The MBS study is a useful tool for evaluating swallowing function in patients with laryngeal cleft and provides information beyond the lack or presence of aspiration. Understanding impairments in all phases of swallowing may be beneficial for perioperative management.
Our recommendation is to distally bend the K-wires as well as proximally to prevent migration of K-wires.
It seems that gender does not signficantly influence the expression of RA.
An association between diabetes and breast cancer is observed, but this can be due to potential detection bias and confounders.
LC can be safely performed in patients on oral anticoagulant therapy.
Routine data are plentiful but of limited use in HTA. The data sets usually do not include the effect of treatments. Coding is inadequate, and confidentiality regulations will make matters worse. Both need urgent attention.
Although our overall failure rate was greater than anticipated, the relatively low serum ion levels and no revisions for pseudotumors in young male patients up to 10 years postoperatively provide some evidence of the suitability of hip resurfacing in this subgroup.
A and E could play an important role in secondary falls prevention. Improving recording of falls in A and E is an essential prerequisite.
In this study, conducted in a setting where the burden of infectious diseases is high, the density of gamma globulin and albumin fractions were significantly associated with HIV status, and among HIV positive patients, with stage of HIV disease and ART. These results suggest that the feasibility of using SPE for monitoring the response of ART in low resource settings should be further explored.
Thyroid surgery under local anaesthesia can be performed safely in a selected group of patients. It offers an effective alternative approach to general anaesthesia and is associated with low morbidity and high levels of patient satisfaction.
MIVAT is as safe and effective as conventional thyroidectomy and is associated with similar narcotic analgesic requirements, but it can be performed through smaller incisions. Operative times were significantly longer for MIVAT, but when patients with thyroiditis were excluded, operative times were not significantly different.
Residents in family practice have considerable deficiencies in ECG interpretation skills. Further studies are needed to determine effective ECG teaching curricula.
Individual mother's needs for privacy need to be determined and interventions to support mothers' feeding plans throughout hospitalization and at discharge need to be developed.
The IPS for advanced HD has modest predictive ability in unfavourable early stage patients. Modification of the IPS for use with early stages may improve its prognostic power.
The data further support the contention that bromocriptine improves glycemic control in obese type-2 diabetic patients, although the mechanism of action remains to be determined.
Although 80% of patients demonstrated testicular catch-up, with a different distribution depending on the procedure type used but without statistically significant differences, only 32% of patients had complete and real testicular volume catch-up.
Transanal excision for T1 rectal tumors with low-grade malignancy has a high rate of recurrence. Although overall cancer survival rates might be regarded as satisfactory, this high recurrence and low salvage rate raises the issue about the role of transanal excision alone for early rectal cancer and the possible need for adjuvant therapy or increased role of resective surgery.
It is important to distinguish different dimensions of depression when assessing very old populations because some of the questions on the GDS are associated with fatigue, mild cognitive decline, and decline in physical functioning, which increase with aging. Future research should revisit the concept of depression in very late life.
We did not find any association between speaking>1 language and dementia.
Verrucous carcinoma is a strictly-defined lesion with a different biological behaviour from that of squamous carcinoma. Preoperative deep biopsy may miss the squamous cell carcinoma. Definitive diagnosis can only be achieved by histological examination of the surgical specimen. In future, DNA studies could possibly support preoperative diagnosis of this lesion.
In this longitudinal study, an initial worsening of glycaemic control as a result of puberty preceded worsening of adherence behaviours. Low levels of adherence become predictive of HbA1c degradation among pubertal stage 5 adolescents. These results suggest a potential bi-directional relationship between glycaemic control and adherence.
Clinical failure and antimicrobial resistance can significantly increase the cost of managing patients with CAP, primarily by increasing LOS. Therefore, strategies should be employed to minimize the risk of resistance development and reduce LOS. These include early appropriate therapy, optimized dosing based on pharmacodynamic principles, and efficient IV-to-PO switch therapy when appropriate.
The authors conclude that the MR imaging is more efficient than the bone scintigraphy in detecting vertebral metastasis, especially in the cases that bone scintigraphy are equivocal or negative for vertebral metastasis in high clinical suspicion. Furthermore, MR imaging is important for the further treatment planning such as radiation therapy or systemic chemotherapy. Although MR imaging is useful in the detection of early metastasis that are localized completely in the bone marrow cavity routinely bone scintigraphy remains that most cost-effective method for examination of the entire skeleton.
Other things being equal, a substantial reduction in inpatient bed availability can be effected in national public hospital systems, while largely maintaining access and quality of care. However, the workload adjustments that are required may slow improvements in patient outcomes.
Clinical decision rules could be used as a compliment providing important additional information regarding risk of repetition in an ED setting when focusing on high sensitivity.
Women's perceptions of care at the time of an unexplained stillbirth did not appear to influence their wishes for management in the next pregnancy.
We have shown that final year medical students have variable knowledge of both the proper and street names of recreational drugs. There is a need for improved education of medical students in the names of recreational drugs and the sources of information available to assist them in identifying what drugs an individual has taken.
Intravenous thrombolysis pretreatment in the context of the bridging approach contributes substantially to revascularization.
The intervention was associated with improved process-of-care measures that have been linked with better outcomes. Patients benefited through increased satisfaction with communication. Follow-up of patients who participated in the intervention may have been too brief to be able to detect significant improvement in health-related outcomes.
DN at 72 h after bacteraemia may be valuable to assess the prognosis of patients with bacteraemia.
This study suggests that despite the progress that has been made since the establishment of the NHIS in Ghana, there are still huge gaps that need urgent attention to ensure that the goals of UHC and PHC are met. The key areas of misalignment identified in this study, particularly on the delays in reimbursements need to be taken seriously. It is also important for more dialogue between the NHIA and service providers to address key concerns in the implementation of the NHIS which is key to achieving UHC.
Only small amounts of clinically occult extraprostatic cancer were identified in the majority of specimens with EPE. Tumor control probability calculations suggest that this volume of cancer may be treated effectively with TIPPB. Treatment of this cancer possibly is achieved with an intraprostatic implant, but treatment of all cancers identified in this study suggests that some extraprostatic seed placement is desirable.
Sunburn in childhood and increased sun exposure during annual holidays in sunny areas should be avoided. In contrast, outdoor activities in childhood, including soccer and gardening, should be encouraged because they are associated with a lower risk of melanoma formation.
Routine preoperative upper GI series before bariatric surgery had a low diagnostic yield, rarely revealing pathology that changed the surgical approach or postponed surgery.
Toxicity of NRTIs have been shown to be opposite on human adipose cells depending on the oxygen availability. These data suggest that the LD phenotype may be a differential consequence of NRTI effects, depending on the metabolic status of the targeted adipose tissues and provide new insights into the opposite effects of antiretroviral treatment, as observed for the lipo-atrophic and lipo-hypertrophic phenotype characteristic of LD.
Like previous research, diagnostic orphans are at increased for developing to more severe alcohol problems. Relying solely on the DSM-IV AUD diagnostic criteria, however, may not be sufficient to identify those diagnostic orphans who are at risk for progressing to dependence.
Reoperation for recurrent thymoma is effective and safe, achieving a prolonged survival. Complete macroscopic resection and single recurrence are associated with better prognosis.
Residents' self-abstraction can be an alternative to costly trained abstractors. Appropriate use of these data should be carefully considered, acknowledging the limitations.
cognitive interventions delivered may not be effective in AD probably due to the fact that the assumptions behind the cognitive interventions might be inadequate. Future directions include a change in the type of intervention as well as the use of outcomes other than standardized tests. Additional studies with larger sample sizes and different designs are needed to increase the power of both primary studies and meta-analyses. (PsycINFO Database Record
These results are identical to study findings in OCD and BDD, indicating important shared neuropsychological features among AN and these OC spectrum disorders. As in OCD and BDD, the essential cognitive deficit in AN was impaired use of organizational strategies, which may inform our understanding of the pathophysiology of AN and potentially offer treatment implications.
Together with previous work indicating no impairment of the phonological loop in patients who hallucinate, these results suggest that inner speech and auditory verbal hallucinations are not connected in a simplistic or direct way. Indeed, a reappraisal of psychological models of hallucinations in general may be warranted.
This is important for early detection of abnormalities in pregnancy, particularly in diabetic mothers.
Both the Cochrane Handbook and the NICE Methods Guide express a preference for direct evidence. A more robust strategy, which is in line with the accepted principles of evidence synthesis, would be to combine all relevant and appropriate information, whether direct or indirect.
An individualized approach to weight monitoring in HF with the HeartPhone algorithm improved prediction of HF deterioration. Further evaluation of HeartPhone with and without other biomarkers of HF deterioration is warranted.
Considering the low conversion and complication rate, VATS was safe and effective in the resection of the bronchogenic cysts. The size and the location of cysts were not important considerations in selecting the surgical method. VATS excision should be considered the primary therapeutic option in the management of patients with bronchogenic cysts.
A single calprotectin measurement may aid gastroenterologists in the differential diagnosis of Crohn's disease and IBS. Its use could decrease the number of invasive or radiological investigations undertaken in the latter group of patients.
Although the hypothesis that small posterior fossa volume influences TN was feasible, we did not find any volumetric differences (including the cisternal and parenchymal volumes).However, small pontomesencephalic cistern volumes were more frequent in patients with TN.
Elective students were no more likely than classmates to believe that it is very important to be centered and to extend compassion toward patients; they reported being less confident and practicing these skills less often than their classmates. Burnout was not less common among those in the elective. Electives may not be "preaching to the choir." Future studies need to determine whether training enhances confidence and skills and whether it protects against developing burnout.
Three-dimensional TOF MRA is the most accurate noninvasive test. Combined use of MRA and DU results in a marked increase in accuracy to a level that obviates the need for CA in a majority of patients.
Notwithstanding major technical, methodologic and privacy challenges, individual-level linkage of health data resources poses the best option for pharmacosurveillance today. In future, drug regulators and reimbursement agencies should consider mandatory post-marketing randomized trials.
Air-conditioning seems to influence the quality of indoor air on seagoing vessels. Interim results of the study indicate that regular maintenance of air-conditioning systems is essential.
The bactericidal activity of a disinfectant is usually considered significant if it causes a 5 log10 or greater reduction in viable bacterial titers. Disinfecting gastroscopes with 2% glutaraldehyde or peracetic acids for 20 minutes may be insufficient to prevent transmission of T. whipplei on the instruments or stop false-positive results on polymerase chain reaction.
Data suggest that DNA damage is not similar in young subjects with chronic alcoholism that which occurs with ageing.
The response to ICT was associated with a significant survival difference when the response groups were compared. A response to ICT showed a trend toward, but was not predictive of, improved OS in LANSCLC patients. Patients with SD/PD after ICT and a squamous histologic type had the poorest OS. These data suggest that patients with squamous LANSCLC might benefit from immediate RT or CCRT.
In highly selected patients with re-recurrent colorectal cancer in the pelvis, we found that surgery could be performed safely and that a curative (R0) resection was possible in more than 50%. Two- and 5-year survival rates are comparable to results seen when surgery is done for first-time recurrences.
At the time of acute ACL injuries, PRLMTs do not appear to result in meniscal extrusion on MRI.
Co-morbid depression and anxiety disorders contributed distinctive grey matter volume reductions of the anterior cingulate cortex in people at UHR of psychosis. These volumetric deficits were correlated with baseline measures of depression and anxiety, suggesting that co-morbid depressive and anxiety diagnoses should be carefully considered in future clinical and imaging studies of the psychosis high-risk state.
Symptoms of depression and anxiety are common in our region, and are more often seen in female patients. We cannot support any relationship between NAFLD and depression or anxiety. Prospective studies should be done in order to assess the real influence of depression and anxiety on the outcome of patients with NAFLD or chronic viral hepatitis.
Routine submission of histological specimens for analysis and out-patient follow-up are not required following circumcision.
Evaluation of flow tracing morphology and/or mean flows can be used to reliably detect nearly occluded anastomoses (>90% stenosis). However, surgeons should be cautious in assessing anastomoses with lesser degrees of stenosis, as they may be more difficult to reliably interpret.
This study has not demonstrated an increased morbidity or mortality associated with early IMN in the presence of thoracic trauma.
The upgrade rate of ADH diagnosed by stereotactic vacuum-assisted core needle biopsy was not significantly different between digital and film-screen mammography. The current recommendation for excision of ADH diagnosed by stereotactic vacuum-assisted core needle biopsy should be applied to ADH detected by digital mammography.
The FTO variants that confer a predisposition to obesity later in life appear to be associated with low weight at birth. This finding favors the hypothesis of a common genetic denominator that predisposes to a low weight at birth and obesity in adults.
Although outcomes did not vary by ownership, for-profit hospitals were more likely to use expensive, high-tech procedures. This pattern appears to be the result of for-profit hospitals' propensity to locate in areas with demand for high-tech care for AMI.
The carbohydrate intake in responders clearly drives DeltaBG, whereas, in nonresponders, other factors predominate. This sort of characterization should be used to guide therapeutic choices toward more targeted care with improved type 2 diabetes management.
Palatal stiffening treatments are successful in the majority of patients. However, identifying patients with predominant palatal flutter snoring significantly increases the probability of subjective treatment success.
Repair of thoracic aneurysms arising in the distal arch can be repaired with a technique based on simple cross-clamping without an increase in mortality or major neurologic injury. Recurrent nerve palsy is much more common with this approach but is well-tolerated without increasing the need for tracheostomy.
Only initial deliveries beyond 37 weeks, irrespective of outcome, were protective against pre-eclampsia in the second pregnancy.
Cats with a previous CCL injury have a different gait pattern compared to sound cats and a different behaviour according to owner subjective assessment. It is of great importance that further studies are performed to investigate the long term effects of CCL injury as a cause of pain and physical dysfunction, and its role in the development of OA in cats. Improved assessment tools for chronic pain caused by OA in cats are needed, both to facilitate diagnosis and to evaluate pain-relieving treatment.
While culture did not appear to influence doctor speech, interpreters filtered or blocked much prognostic communication.
The interest of this series is to show, at a mid-term follow-up and using an invasive imaging technique, the low rate of tendon-to-bone healing in arthroscopic rotator cuff repair but with a minimal influence on clinical outcome.
The apparent relation between exercise systolic blood pressure response and left ventricular mass is confounded by age, resting systolic blood pressure, and body mass; the degree of confounding is such that the biologic significance of this relationship should be questioned.
In this patient group, expectations of surgery were overly optimistic. Having one's expectations fulfilled was most important for a good outcome. The results emphasize the importance of assessing patient-orientated outcome in routine practice, and the factors that might influence it, such that realistic expectations can be established for patients before surgery.
Clinical varicocele frequency of U-MNI patients, who have spastic paralysis of abdominal and lower extremity muscles, is similar to the control group. This finding inspires that increased intra-abdominal pressure via normal to increased abdominal muscle tonus may have a role in the varicocele etiology, beside the classical factors. Absence of clinical varicocele in L-MNI patients, who have flaccid paralysis of the same muscle groups, supports this observation.
It appears that both questionnaires have excellent test-retest reliability and good construct validity when used to evaluate LBP-related disability for older adults with varying degrees of LBP. Neither questionnaire appears to have superior psychometric properties; therefore, both the Oswestry and Quebec can be recommended for use among geriatric patients with LBP.
Due to the single-centre, observational nature of this study, the equivalent outcomes between those thrombolysed by a stroke neurologist versus those thrombolysed by a stroke physician must be interpreted with caution pending further studies. Nevertheless, in the current setting, no signal for harm has been detected. This study is unique as it is the first to our knowledge comparing outcomes between a neurologist and non-neurologist following thrombolysis.
Delayed repair of bladder exstrophy allows to approach patients who have reached adequate weight and stabilization; if adequately cared for bladder plate shows minimal inflammation at surgery and can be managed by the parents at home. Deferring surgery also offers the advantages of preoperative testosterone stimulation, promotion of mother-baby relationship as well as of transfer to Centers with adequate experience and proficiency in all aspects of bladder exstrophy reconstruction.
Current suicidal ideation was a common feature of patients with opioid addiction. Depression and hostility as part of the bipolar spectrum - in the context of early-onset drug dependence, work and social/leisure problems - appear independently associated with suicidal ideation. Given the elevated rates of completed suicide in heroin addiction, these data have implications for preventing suicide in patients with this type of addiction. Prospective data are needed to further address this important clinical and public health agenda.
There are regional differences in LV systolic function in men and women that depend on regional wall thickness and wall stress.
The results indicate that the maintenance of behavioural patterns within groups 1) could be explained by the first rewarded manipulation and subsequent habit formation and 2) do not require social conformity as a mechanism. After an initial spread of a behaviour throughout a group, this mechanism may lead to a superficial appearance of conformity without the involvement of such a socially and cognitively complex mechanism. This is the first time that such an experiment has been conducted with free-ranging primates.
The six hour rule-out protocol for myocardial infarction is accurate and efficacious. It can be used in patients presenting to emergency departments with chest pain indicating a low to moderate risk of myocardial infarction.
Low levels of contamination with E. coli O157 and generic E. coli in retail meat suggest that meat is not a major route of infection in NE Scotland.
Our experience convinced us of the clinical potential of supracricoid laryngectomy with cricohyoidoepiglottopexy as one of the effective options for functional larynx preservation. Supracricoid laryngectomy with cricohyoidoepiglottopexy is the most suitable for unfavorable T2 and T3a cases and is applicable for appropriately selected radiation-failed patients. Thorough pre-operative evaluation, proper surgical techniques and careful follow-up are prerequisites for the success of supracricoid laryngectomy with cricohyoidoepiglottopexy.
These data suggest that teicoplanin levels of>or = 20 mg/l for bone and joint infection in stable adult patients are best achieved with a daily dose of at least 600 mg.
Both restaurant workers and customers are substantially exposed to SHS. Although some restaurant owners are concerned about a decrease in profits, the fear of losing business is not supported by the response among customers. Therefore, introducing a law-banning smoking in restaurants appears to be feasible and acceptable in Shanghai.
Simple intermediate outcome measures can be an inaccurate reflection of true quality of care, and many patients classified as having substandard quality by "poor control" might actually be receiving good quality of care.
In our trial, oxytocin did not add any significant beneficial effects to anti-psychotic treatment in terms of clinical symptoms or psychosocial functioning. Further research should focus on different ways to administer oxytocin, or investigate predictors (such as past traumas, or biomarkers), which could identify subgroups of patients with different treatment responses to oxytocin. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01699997. ID number: RF-2010-2311148. URL: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01699997.
The threshold for reporting pain seemed higher in low-SEP subjects and among women. Physicians were more likely to agree with low-SEP workers about work-relatedness.
In this prospective randomized study, stepwise voltage ramping during SWL was associated with a lower risk of renal damage compared to a fixed maximal voltage without compromising treatment effectiveness.
Certain echocardiographic parameters suggest a better LV filling in patients undergoing OHT using the bicaval approach. Preservation of the right atrial geometry in patients undergoing OHT using the bicaval approach plays an important role in LV filling.
Our results suggest that alterations in overall DNA methylation seem to be a result of neoplastic transformation and could therefore be used as a prognostic molecular marker of endometrial cancer.
The findings support recent reports that the increase in hip fracture rates during most of the past century may have ended. However, the number of admissions for hip fracture is still rising. Preventive measures to reduce the burden of this condition on the healthcare system and community need to be pursued and strengthened.
In depressed inpatients, especially women, there is evidence that activation of the HPA system is related to relatively low body weight and low body fat content.
Safety concerns related to timely patient follow-up remain despite automated notification of non-life-threatening abnormal laboratory results in the outpatient setting.
These results support the view that SLI and dyslexia are distinct but potentially comorbid developmental language disorders. A deficit in phonological processing is closely associated with dyslexia but not with SLI when it occurs in the absence of dyslexia.
These data indicate that even light-to-moderate activity is associated with lower CHD rates in women. At least 1 hour of walking per week predicted lower risk. The inverse association with physical activity was also present in women at high risk for CHD, including those who were overweight, had increased cholesterol levels, or were smokers.
Major fetal malformations and exposure to SSRIs during pregnancy and lactation do not appear to be associated. Some minor perinatal complications have been reported. Data on the long-term developmental outcomes of children exposed to SSRIs in utero and during breastfeeding are limited.
Our results indicate that repeated demonstrations of elevated HA scores in patients with PD are not crucially influenced by comorbid personality disorders.
Smoke-free legislation in workplaces and public places is not correlated with increased smoking prevalence in private venues (houses and cars) at an ecological level.
The development of mild renal scarring seems to mainly depend on urinary tract infections, while moderate and severe scarring are also associated with high grade reflux and male sex. Early detection and treatment may prevent further urinary tract infections as well as reflux related kidney damage.
THP-uric acid binding does not seem to play a significant role in the regulation of urate homeostasis.
About one third of the patients with a transient ischemic attack or minor ischemic stroke has both focal and nonfocal neurological symptoms. Nonfocal symptoms are not associated with an increased long-term risk of vascular events or death.
Given that IGT and DM are common among postmenopausal women and DM can be prevented by nonpharmacologic interventions in women with IGT, OGTT may be used more frequently among these women. Our data indicate that for optimal screening of non-insulin-dependent DM and IGT, OGTT should be considered in postmenopausal women, especially when risk factors in addition to age are present. This model may detect most of the women with IGT and almost all diabetic women.
This review is an off-label map of BMP use in orthopaedics during the past 10 years. Our results could provide a useful tool to help decisions around when to use a BMP in a specific complex, and sometimes off-label, situation.
The results of our work show that in Canada, many NGS research needs are already dealt with. Our analysis led us to propose the addition of well-defined categories for future use, adding options on the sharing of genetic data, and widening the grounds on which research participants could consent to be recontacted.
Heterogeneity in development, structure, user and end points of guidelines is evident, though necessary in order to meet divergent demands. Crucial for their effectiveness are adherence to methodological standards, a clear definition of what the guideline intends to do for whom and a systematic evaluation of their impact on health care.
Although almost all pediatric programs are now providing AM rotations, there is significant variability in adequacy of training across multiple topics important for resident education. Programs desire more learner-centered materials and more faculty to provide comprehensive resident education in AM.
Our data support the inclusion of an ASD diagnosis in the DSM, which would allow the diagnosis of symptoms in the first month posttrauma as a psychiatric disorder but questions whether dissociation is more characteristic of the acute trauma period than the PTSD symptom clusters.
This study showed that there were minimal variations in the CRAE, CRVE, tortuosity, and branching angle that are clinically used for two-dimensional measures of retinal vascular geometry during cardiac cycles. However, there was significant variation in the caliber of the individual vessels over the cardiac cycle.
Pimecrolimus has a mild therapeutic effect on vitiligo without significant side effects and can be an alternative therapy agent.
It may be little dangerous to initiate the SCP with normothermia. P-SCP may be useful in cases in which there is pedunculated atherosclerotic material, or mural thrombus in the ascending and arch aorta.
Central lucencies in peripheral consolidations are highly suggestive of pulmonary infarction.
The TRICKS sequence can be added to standard MRA for pre-therapeutic evaluation of distal arteries in patients with peripheral arterial disease, especially with chronic ischemic with rest pain and/or trophic changes.
The control of use of stimulants is at the crux of the prevention of BFS.
Our data support the hypothesis that SCH might represent an independent risk factor for overall and vascular mortality, especially in men below 60 years. Whether this group would benefit from replacement therapy should be evaluated in interventional studies.
Tampons lubricated with pH-balanced gel do not control vaginal pH. There was no evidence of measurable health benefits of lubricated tampons, but women preferred tampons with [corrected] lubrication.
The results of both therapeutic methods in both age groups seem satisfactory. Very good tolerance was also observed. It seems that if a patient is not completely suitable for radical cystectomy or radical radiotherapy age should not be considered as an exclusion factor.
According to our results, the sensibility and specificity of 99mTcMIBI brain SPECT seems to be high. Moreover, this investigation is more accurate for discriminating tumor recurrence from radionecrosis than a CT scan or MRI.
After implementation of a process-oriented breastfeeding training program for antenatal midwives and postnatal nurses that included an intervention guaranteeing continuity of care, the mothers were more satisfied with emotional and informative support during the first 9 months postpartum. The results lend support to family classes incorporating continuity of care.
Robot-assisted intracorporeal ileal conduit can be safely performed in all body mass indices. Further studies are needed to assess long-term conduit function and stomal complications.
We found that there is clearly a significant overuse of staging investigations for both these groups while the incidence of metastases identified was very low. This is likely to have a significant impact on the waiting time for scans and lead to substantial waste of resources. It places unnecessary financial burden on the patients and the healthcare system. There are also issues of increased radiation and contrast exposure, and potentially unnecessary further investigations.
Based on highly stringent diagnostic criteria, nearly 10% of incident ESRD cases were due to CHN. CHN represents a significant cause of ESRD in Taiwan.
The BMI, waist circumference and WHtR values can similarly predict the presence of multiple metabolic risk factors in Chinese subjects.
Patients with RA had worse EQ-5D scores than the general population, and the difference was strongly associated with disease activity. The EQ-5D score for patients in clinical remission approached that of the general population, suggesting that strict treatment goals are critical in order to achieve near-normal HRQOL in patients with RA.
Tissue quality is altered after HoLEP and TURP. General prostatic architecture was maintained in the majority of HoLEP histological specimens. A moderately higher percent of prostatic tissue obtained by the Ho laser is lost by vaporization and coagulation. Nevertheless, these differences do not seem to alter pathologist ability to detect incidental prostate cancer and PIN.
In addition to accurately fitting the HR kinetics, the most striking finding is an "oxygen-conserving breaking point" highlighted by the model, which might be interpreted as unique adaptive feature against hypoxic damages in the human diving bradycardia.
Obesity may have less effect on the outcome of patients with mainly cranial neurosurgical disease and aneurysmal SAH than it does on patients undergoing other types of surgery.
Univariate statistical analysis found that low levels of serum albumin adversely affected survival by a statistically significant level for all stages of breast cancer. We found that a baseline serum albumin level was a powerful prognostic variable, which accounted for 7.35% of the variation in patient survival time.
The groups generally agree on what constitutes abuse, but attending physicians and those abused as students may perceive more behaviors as abusive.
In patients with placenta previa, the number of gestational weeks to the occurrence of the first genital bleeding can be used as a predictor of the number of weeks to term.
Many Medicare patients in whom pneumonia has been diagnosed present in an atypical manner. Delivering antibiotic treatment within 4 h for all patients would necessitate the treatment of many patients before a firm diagnosis can be made.
The present study demonstrates that prediction of locally advanced urothelial carcinomas of the bladder by both validated nomograms is not conferrable to patients of the present German cystectomy series. Hence, there is still a need for statistical models with enhanced predictive accuracy.
Results of this study indicate that true-negative nitrite results of a dipstick pressed into urine in an incontinence pad do not appear to be affected by a 2-hour delay in analysis.
Patients with FM do not generally have increased serum levels of HA, and other serum measurements have not been helpful in the diagnosis of FM. Some biochemical changes have been described in FM, however, and these have mainly been observed in the spinal fluid.
Viscocanalostomy represents a safe surgical antiglaucomatous method for improving the intraocular pressure. A respective clinical improvement could be observed during the follow-up period of up to 60 months. The prognosis of intraocular pressure does not improve by the use of intrascleral implants and viscocanalostomy with simultaneous cataract surgery, however.
Concomitant LGBP/LC is safe and feasible without altering port placement. Combining these procedures significantly increases operative time and nearly doubles the hospital stay.
Metal release from coronary stents is shown. The magnitude of release is influenced by several factors. The extent to which metal release in vitro has potential biological effects, in terms of elicitation of an allergic reaction or induction of sensitization, in vivo needs to be explored. However, as metal release from an implant in a biologically appropriate medium has been established, better risk assessments in relation to delayed hypersensitivity may be undertaken.
At plasma levels that are observed in patients after 2.5 mg three times a day ( approximately 60 nmol/L), pindolol produces only a partial blockade of presynaptic 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors and does not augment the SSRI-induced 5-HT increase in the guinea pig brain. It is therefore very unlikely that the favorable effects of combining pindolol with SSRIs, as reported in a number of clinical studies, are due to 5-HT(1A) antagonism. Since pindolol completely blocks central beta-adrenoreceptors at clinically relevant plasma levels, it is possible that beta-adrenoceptor antagonism is involved in mediating pindolol's beneficial effects.
Few patients admitted for hip fracture had previously taken recommended osteoporosis therapy including bisphosphonates. While compliance with Canadian Consensus recommendations was observed at six weeks, this was not the case at twelve months post hip fracture rehabilitation. Interventions to improve not only the detection and treatment of osteoporosis but also the ongoing treatment and management post-fracture need to be developed and implemented.
Echo (Doppler) cardiography can be useful in order to identify risk indicators for falling. Presence of pulmonary hypertension or regurgitation of mitral, tricuspid or pulmonary valves was associated with a higher fall risk. Our study indicates that the diagnostic work-up for falls in older adults might be improved by adding an echo (Doppler) cardiogram in selected groups.
With the inclusion of benign disease, colon surgery displays a volume-outcome relationship in favor of non-THs. Inclusion of benign disease may represent a tipping point.
Mean penile length and diameter are slightly but significantly smaller in newborns of Chinese origin compared to newborns of Caucasian and East-Indian origins.
Despite inconsistencies between the American and European diagnostic recommendations, concordance in diagnostic outcomes among subjects presenting with single organ manifestations of CF was good to excellent. These diagnostic guidelines provide guidance and promote rigorous evaluation for the diagnosis of CF but neither guideline should be regarded as dogma.
Clinicians' knowledge of breast symptoms management varied, and some reported discomfort in their level of knowledge and skills. Although our pilot intervention improved the use of clinical guidelines, it had no statistically significant impact on clinicians' knowledge or attitudes.
Value congruence of leadership support is related to job satisfaction and may be a factor in turnover intent.
GUCA1A and GUCY2D mutations are both accompanied by similar pattern of generalized cone dysfunction with a tendency to less involvement of the rod photoreceptors and a less severe phenotype in patients with GUCA1A.
Student performances at collecting the clinical history or communicating with the standardized patient were not adversely affected by inclusion of an infant mannequin. This suggests mannequins can be used to assess students' knowledge of the relevant case-specific PE without adverse effect.
This study supports the recent view that the majority of the genome is transcribed and that many of the resulting transcripts seem to be non-coding RNAs from introns of genes or from independent transcriptional units. Although some of the information on the transcriptome of many organisms may actually be artefacts or transcriptional noise, we argue that it can be experimentally evaluated and used to find and define biological functional elements on the genome. Furthermore, the transcription of other functional RNAs besides the protein coding RNA from a specific genomic locus imposes extra care when designing and interpreting experiments involving genetic manipulations or expression detection and quantification.
HLA susceptibility variants play an important role in determining radiological progression in early, active ACPA-positive RA. Genome-wide and HLA-wide analyses across large populations are required to better characterize the genetic architecture of radiological progression in RA.
This large series of surgically-treated CBTs supports craniocaudal dissection as the surgical technique of choice as it limits blood loss and facilitates safe CBT resection.
The efficient optimisation of the piperidine inhibitors was facilitated by structural analysis of the renin active site in two renin-inhibitor complexes (some of the piperidine derivatives have picomolar affinities for renin). These structural changes provide the basis for a novel paradigm for inhibition of monomeric aspartic proteinases.
Young oral tongue patients did not have worse outcomes.
We conclude that plasma elastase is a useful independent marker of disease activity in inflammatory bowel disease. Especially for identifying patients in remission, the measurements of elastase seem to be more suitable than other parameters of inflammation, like CRP or ESR.
The clinicopatholgic features of MSI-H phenotype were different according to the progression of gastric neoplasias from ESGNs to AGCs. ESGNs with MSI-H were only associated with old age, female sex. In addition ESGNs with MSI-H were not associated with an increased risk of multifocal tumors.
Fixating the condylar component of the TMJ Concepts total joint prosthesis using fewer than 100% of the available screw holes does not predispose the reconstruction to hardware loss, particularly if greater than 50% screw fixation can be achieved or a minimum of 5 screws are used.
Overall, the study findings demonstrate the reluctance of these older breast carcinoma survivors to take estrogen after a breast carcinoma diagnosis. There was an increased willingness to consider therapy if multiple symptoms coexisted and the possible risk of recurrence was small (13% compared with 10%). There was also no significant correlation between current menopausal symptoms and the willingness to take estrogen in the hypothetical situations posed in the interview. These findings suggest an important feasibility problem that must be addressed before hormone replacement clinical trials involving breast carcinoma survivors are launched.
Toxic metals and trace elements may disturb DNA repair mechanisms by impairing DNA methylation profiles, and thus have a role in the pathogenesis of conotruncal heart defects.
This study has mainly indicated that platelets after OPCAB were more easily activated in the early postoperative period. After CABG with cardiopulmonary bypass we found a temporary platelet dysfunction which seemed to be overcome within the first postoperative day.
Our experience suggests patients with GBM-O have a more favourable clinical outcome as compared to GBM.
In this study, the use of virtual reality did not increase motivation toward psychotherapy. At the end of the second part of therapy, all participants were comparably efficient in facing a live tarantula. These results bear important clinical implications concerning how to use virtual reality with children and concerning motivation of children toward therapy in general. They are discussed in the light of how to present in virtuo therapy to children.
Both the knot-tying and knotless suture anchors groups showed statistically significant and similar improvement in VAS and Constant scores. Both anchors provided reasonable outcomes. The knotless suture anchor is a good alternative to knot-tying suture anchors so that arthroscopic Bankart repairs can be performed without knot tying.
The PTB case detection rate in Burkina Faso is low, due to the loss of cases at each of the stages leading to the diagnosis of TB. Case detection depends on the operational effectiveness of the staff working in the health services, as well as the referral of suspect patients to the CDT.
Our study demonstrates a favorable safety profile with nearly equivalent outcomes and some previously unidentified qualitative benefits of the RRYGB approach to bariatric surgery in a community setting. These results are despite our early experience with the robotic surgery platform and confirm noninferiority of RRYGB versus LRYGB. While the RRYGB operative time was longer than LRYGB, the demonstrated decrease in operative time commensurate with increase in operative experience holds tremendous promise for the future.
Increased TSH may be predictive of a decrease in insulin resistance, it should be measured with thyroid hormones; fT4 was associated with a low metabolic risk. Changes in thyroid function could protect against the occurrence of obesity-associated metabolic diseases.
The greatest reduction in the risk of objective progression and PSA doubling with bicalutamide was seen in patients with N+ disease. However, bicalutamide also provided a statistically significant benefit in those with N0 and Nx disease.
Primary care access issues do not differ strongly between traditional and new models of care; however, patients in the new models of care believed that their physicians were more involved with them as people.
Children in the AM group appeared to utilize script and causal connectivity elements when retelling a script-based story. Children in the LI group appeared to focus more on script elements than causal connectivity. Their deficiencies may reflect difficulties with flexible application of scripts and accessing relevant knowledge, and/or generalized difficulties organizing information and extracting patterns.
This case provides evidence that wavefront data centered on the entrance pupil center may not represent the patient's view and the treatment zone should preferably be centered on the corneal vertex rather than the entrance pupil center.
After balloon angioplasty of a subtotal or total coronary occlusion, no reduction in adverse events was observed among patients in whom ticlopidine was added to aspirin, even after adjustment for clinical and lesion characteristics.
It is important the pharmacist to detect unappropriated prescriptions of PPIs, especially among oncologic patients, and to promote a deprescription of these drugs.
The Caton-Deschamps index is a simple and reliable index for evaluating patellar height in children as well as adults. It is an alternative to the Insall-Salvati index measurement, in which reproducibility is poor due to difficulties in determining the distal point of the patellar tendon, and to the Koshino index, which is complex to use. In our study, there was a correlation between the Caton-Deschamps index and age, due to the progressive patellar ossification that begins at the proximal part of the patella. The Caton-Deschamps index is a pertinent and reliable ratio to evaluate patellar height in children and adolescents. To make an accurate diagnosis of patellar disorders in children, the normal, age-based Caton-Deschamps values need to be considered.
Alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone and related peptides that exert their effects via MC-1R may provide a novel antifibrogenic therapeutic tool for the treatment of fibrotic diseases such as scleroderma.
By improving psychosocial factors at work, it is possible to promote employee health as well as prevent employee ill-health.
Automated devices using oscillometric principles "underrecord" systolic and diastolic blood pressure compared with auscultatory observations (phase I and phase IV) in patients with proteinuric preeclampsia. In some cases the difference between observations exceeds 30 mm Hg.
Despite guidelines on targeting patients at high risk of coronary disease accurate assessment of coronary risk remains difficult for many doctors. Additional strategies must be developed to help doctors to assess better their patients' coronary risk.
Although there has been sporadic attention in the ophthalmic literature to the risks associated with starch powdered surgical gloves in ophthalmology, up to 15% of UK ophthalmic surgeons may still be using starch powdered gloves. The authors show that starch powder contamination of ophthalmic materials can actually occur and remind ophthalmologists that this has been reported in the literature as a possible cause of sterile intra and extraocular inflammation.
Hot dry air by using a hair dryer is an inexpensive, rapid, easy, easily available, and effective method of disinfection compared with glutaraldehyde solution.
In patients with single- or two-vessel territory perfusion abnormalities with similar size and severity of perfusion defects, the location of defect did not impact future cardiac events. Location of myocardial perfusion defect on SPECT imaging may not be helpful in clinical decision making.
A close relationship between IAP and ICP has been observed in several animal and human studies. The clinical impact of this association is dependent on the baseline ICP and the compensatory reserve of the patient. Some studies have reported good results in treating refractory ICH by abdominal decompression in patients with concomitant IAH. Monitoring of IAP and ICP in risk patients is essential.
This study has revealed the segregational occupation of breeding habitats by pyrethroid resistant and susceptible strains of An. gambiae in south-western Nigeria. Compiled results from field and laboratory research point out clear relationships between oil spillage and pyrethroid resistance in malaria vectors. The identification of this factor of resistance could serve as strong information in the management of insecticide resistance in some West African settings.
These findings suggest that IVRO is a clinically acceptable and stable treatment modality for mandibular prognathism with a high angle.
High BMI donors can safely donate their kidney with no significant increase in complication rates at high-volume transplantation centers.
FHR variability by itself cannot serve as the only indicator of fetal wellbeing. The presence of low variability should alert the physician; however, good FHR variability should not be interpreted as reassuring.
Most patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention/stenting have a high risk for major bleeding (HAS-BLED score ≥3). Even in these patients, OAC improves prognosis in these patients (reduced mortality and major adverse cardiac events) with an increase in major bleeding.
Despite inherent weaknesses, PET-hypoxia imaging is able to generate quantitative tumor maps that accurately reflect the underlying microscopic reality (i.e., hypoxic cell density) in an animal model with a clinical realistic image contrast.
If early identification of MRSA in colonized patients prevents nosocomial transmission of the organism to as few as six new patients, the screening program would save money.
In this study, the first of its kind, we report a significantly altered cytokine profile in FXS. The characterization of an immunological profile in FXS with and without autism may help to elucidate if an abnormal immune response may play a role and help to identify mechanisms important in the etiology of autism both with and without FXS.
No definitive evidence was noticed regarding whether NAC/IDS increases survival compared with PDS. NAC should be reserved for patients who cannot tolerate PDS or when optimal cytoreduction is not feasible.
This study suggests that the severity of sinus disease based on preoperative CT scan does not correlate with the histologic degree of disease.
This study identified the important role of injections in spreading HCV infection in this rural community. National healthcare awareness and infection control programmes should be strengthened to prevent further transmission. Screening of families of infected HCV subjects should be an essential part of case management for early detection and management.
Preference inversions between Levels 4 and 5 on the EQ-5D-5L were tested and confirmed; therefore, valuation studies may find that Levels 4 and 5 have the same value. To mitigate such inversions, labels could be revised or a 4-level version could be considered.
EMLA cream is a good alternative to general anaesthetics in the separation of preputial adhesions. The technique is operator-dependent and better results were obtained when one person was using it regularly. Separation of adhesions is a worthwhile procedure in boys with symptomatic non-retractile foreskins.
Tumor resection is not beneficial for the survival of patients with NSCLC who have a minor malignant pleural effusion.
Overall, few patients had treatment preferences that would make them eligible for hospice, although even in patients whose preferences were consistent with hospice, few enrolled. Efforts to improve end-of-life care should offer alternatives to hospice that do not require patients to give up life-sustaining treatment, as well as interventions to improve communication about patients' preferences.
Our results--most notably regarding the demand-satisfying attitude of responding GPs--call into question the classical view of the guidance and gatekeeper role of GPs in the Dutch health care system.
Informal caregivers perform a critical social and economic role in care provision. Cancer caregivers are a proportionally larger cohort than non-cancer caregivers. With the increasing incidence of cancer, the sustainability of a voluntary cancer caregiving workforce will be reliant upon minimising the burden of care.
Preoperative α1-adrenoceptor antagonist has no benefit in maintaining intraoperative hemodynamic stability in patients with normotensive pheochromocytoma. It may increase the use of vasoactive drugs and colloid infusion.
Relative measures should be more widely used when assessing foodscape influences on diet. The absence of a single effect of the foodscape on diet positions sub-group analysis as a promising avenue for research.
Naloxone (21 microg/kg) did not reinstate secondary hyperalgesia when administered 72 hours after a first-degree burn injury and did not increase BTS-generated hyperalgesia. The negative results may be due to the low dose of naloxone or insufficient tissue injury to generate latent sensitization.
Kaolin ingestion appears to meet the DSM-IV criteria for a "culture-bound syndrome."
We conclude that in young women with PCOS and without cardiovascular risk factors, CFR is preserved.
IVF outcome of IMSI resulted in a higher implantation rate, pregnancy rate and most importantly delivery rate compare to non IMSI treated cycles.
Despite the challenges in first-episode psychosis diagnosis, it is possible to have a good agreement between OPCRIT-generated (DSM-IV and ICD-10) diagnoses and clinician based diagnoses, although some differences exist. The choice of psychopharmacological treatment prescribed matches well with these operationalized diagnoses.
In this longitudinal study of white children, FFMI consistently increased with BMI percentile, whereas FMI and %BF had more complicated relationships with BMI percentile depending on gender, age, and whether BMI percentile was high or low. Our results suggest that BMI percentile changes may not accurately reflect changes in adiposity in children over time, particularly among male adolescents and children of lower BMI.
Displacement and induction both appear to have operated following unexpected labour market contractions in Sweden, though with different population segments.
Outcome data on severely masculinized 46,XX patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia who were assigned male gender at birth indicate male gender identity in adulthood with satisfactory male sexual function in those retaining male genitalia. In men who completed questionnaires results were poorer in those lacking familial/social support. Male gender of rearing may be a viable option for parents whose children are born with congenital adrenal hyperplasia, a 46,XX karyotype and male genitalia, although positive parental and other support, and counseling are needed for adjustment.
Although no evidence of metastatic melanoma was found on CLND in most patients in whom negative nodes had been removed with positive SLNs at the initial biopsy, 10% of these patients did have further metastases. This subgroup of patients (positive SLNs and negative nodes in the SLN biopsy specimen) is at significantly lower risk for further metastasis, but CLND cannot be safely omitted even for these patients.
Youth with JA reported high use of CAM, but few discussed CAM with health care providers. Findings suggest practitioners should engage adolescents in discussions about CAM.
The BODE index score correlated with the scores of all of the mSGRQ domains in COPD patients with FEV1<50%. Therefore, COPD patients with FEV1<50% die sooner and have a poorer quality of life.
Silent ureteral stones are associated with decreased kidney function present at the diagnosis. Hydronephrosis tends to diminish after stone removal, and kidney function remains unaltered.
When combined with ACEI or ARB, ASA had no demonstrable adverse effect on intermediate-term postdischarge outcomes for patients with ischemic or nonischemic HF.
Extremes of nutritional intake and growth performance in preterm infants do not programme later blood pressure at 7.5-8 years of age. These findings do not support the hypothesis that high blood pressure has early nutritional origins. We suggest that the long term rise in blood pressure reported in individuals who had low birthweight (at full term) is not, as previously speculated, due to poor fetal nutrition or growth as such.
Short-term morbidity and mortality associated with the Ross procedure are low in patients with either congenital or acquired aortic valvulopathy.
It is concluded that higher caloric intakes could be tolerated earlier in patients receiving jejunal feeding.
The results indicate that wide-ranging species are indeed characterized by greater intraspecific variation and that species' phenotypes shift along environmental gradients in the same direction as the community phenotypes. However, across species, the rate of intraspecific trait change, reflecting plastic and/or adaptive changes across populations, is limited and prevents species from adjusting to environmental gradients as quickly as interspecific changes resulting from community assembly.
All three NSAIDs exhibited anti-inflammatory activity against MSU crystal induced inflammation. The difference in anti-inflammatory effects of these three non-steroidal drugs is seen not only in the anti-inflammatory effect on MSU induced inflammation but also in the nature of the effects. Refocoxib tended to increase the TNF-alpha level. Whether increased TNF-alpha levels can help explain the side effect of COX-2 specific inhibitors still requires further studies.
Implementation of a rights-based approach and structural changes to family planning service delivery are recommended to empower YMW in Egypt to demand and exercise their reproductive rights.
Concomitant chemoradiation according to the FUMIR schedule used in selected patients age>or = 75 years with anorectal carcinoma can be performed safely.
In this paper, we evaluated the relation between hypospadias and the ambient temperatures that the mother is exposed during her pregnancy. The results of this study indicated that the high ambient temperatures the mother and fetus are exposed to at 8-14 weeks of gestation increased the risk of hypospadias in the offspring.
We report minor R>L asymmetry in hippocampal volumes in controls and present some evidence to suggest that there is a change in the natural R>L asymmetry during the progression of AD.
Perioperative clinical outcomes, including complication rates, are similar with laparoscopic and open subtotal colectomy. Laparoscopic subtotal colectomy can be performed safely in children with improved cosmesis.
Primary hip arthroscopy for all procedures performed in aggregate had excellent clinical outcomes and patient satisfaction scores at short-term follow-up in this study. More studies must be conducted to determine the definition of a successful outcome. There was a 6.1% minor complication rate, which was consistent with previous studies. Patients should be counseled regarding the potential progression of degenerative change leading to arthroplasty as well as the potential for revision surgery.
This case demonstrates that transseptal puncture in pulmonary vein isolation with an inserted PFO occluder under additional transesophageal, echocardiographic monitoring is safe and feasible.
Investigation on an individual level showed that alcohol consumption was a common precursor to suicide and that rigorous alcohol restrictions were accompanied particularly by a decrease in BAC-positive suicide mortality among both sexes. However, the 'natural experiment' does not, in terms of study design, demonstrate convincingly that the fall in the suicide rate was due specifically to the decrease in alcohol use as such.
Devascularization without esophageal stapler transection is a safe and effective procedure for adequate (urgent and long-term) control of variceal bleeding with similar results and less morbidity when compared to devascularization with esophageal transection in cirrhotic patients, as well as non-cirrhotic patients.
If there is an association between cimetidine and neutropenia, it appears to be very small.
Lamellar surgery is gaining in popularity, although regular penetrating keratoplasty is still the more commonly performed procedure. Only when hydrops cases are excluded do transplant rates become comparable.
Most patients presenting with PFAPA syndrome have heterozygous MEFV gene mutations. Whether carrying a heterozygous MEFV gene is the primary cause of this syndrome requires further investigation.
Extended hepatectomy can be performed with a near-zero operative mortality rate and is associated with long-term survival in a subset of patients with malignant hepatobiliary disease. Combining extended hepatectomy with another intraabdominal procedure increases the risk of postoperative morbidity.
Obese/overweight children and adolescents whose 1-hour glucose level is ≥155 mg/dL in the standard OGTT carry a high risk for IGT. Obese/overweight children and adolescents whose HbA1c level is at or above 5.5% may have IGT even though their fasting glucose level is normal, thus, OGTT is necessary to evaluate the glucose tolerance.
This study was the first epidemiological study to demonstrate an association between type 2 diabetes mellitus and HSP60, thus suggesting that HSP60 may play an important role in the type 2 diabetes mellitus pathology.
Current smoking in adult life moderately impairs the semen quality. It is well known that semen quality is associated to fecundity. Therefore, it would be sensible to advise men to abstain from smoking to avoid decreased fecundity.
Biomechanically, the single-screw plate system is equivalent to a two-screw dual-rod and a two-screw plate system. All three systems performed similarly in stabilizing the spine after one- or two-level corpectomies.
Dye-determined amniotic fluid volume accurately reflects actual amniotic fluid volume but the dye-determined concentrations, in vivo, may undergo rapid changes.
The performance of both versions of the COHQOL measures (CPQ₈₋₁₀ and short-form CPQ₁₁₋₁₄) appears to be acceptable in this younger age group, and this work represents the first stage in validating this questionnaire in a younger age group. It also further confirms that younger children are capable of providing their own perceptions of oral health impacts. The acceptability of the short-from CPQ₁₁₋₁₄ in this younger age group lends support to its use in children between ages 5 and 14.
This study demonstrates that there is a statistically significant, quantifiable correlation among type of bariatric surgery, degree of ptosis, and psychological morbidity in patients who have undergone bariatric surgery. This pilot study could provide the basis for evidence-based guidelines for plastic surgery referral.
Active surveillance for managing localized prostate cancer was not associated with greater psychological distress than more immediate treatment for prostate cancer.
Symptoms, although important in assigning many noncardiac causes, are not useful in risk-stratifying patients whose cause of syncope cannot be identified by other history and physical examination. Triage decisions and management plans should be based on pre-existing cardiac disease or electrocardiographic abnormalities, which are important predictors of arrhythmic syncope and mortality.
Given appropriate guidelines, SHOs have the skills to assess the significance of, and decide on appropriate management for, neonatal murmurs. Electrocardiograms and chest radiographs are not necessary.
The presence of distal hyperintense vessels before thrombolytic treatment is associated with large diffusion-perfusion mismatch and smaller subacute ischemic lesion volumes in patients with proximal middle cerebral artery occlusion. DWI = diffusion-weighted imaging; FLAIR = fluid-attenuated inversion recovery; GRE = gradient recalled echo; HV = hyperintense vessels; MCA = middle cerebral artery; MRA = magnetic resonance angiography; MTT = mean transit time; NIHSS = NIH Stroke Scale; PWI = perfusion-weighted imaging; rt-PA = recombinant tissue plasminogen activator; TE = echo time; TI = inversion time; TIMI = thrombolysis in myocardial infarction; TR = repetition time.
Acute posteromedial meniscal tears and repairs with vertical mattress sutures do not gap, but rather compress in the transverse plane at higher flexion angles when subjected to physiologic loads consistent with active, open kinetic chain range of motion rehabilitation exercises. The kinematics of the repaired meniscus more closely resemble that of the intact meniscus than that of the torn meniscus in regions adjacent to the MCL and the root but not in the midposterior region, where meniscal repair led to increased compression across the tear plane.
In the absence of prospective randomized studies, it is not possible to prove whether the radial forearm flap truly is the standard technique in penile reconstruction. However, this large study demonstrates that the radial forearm phalloplasty is a very reliable technique for the creation, mostly in two stages, of a normal-appearing penis and scrotum, always allowing the patient to void while standing and in most cases also to experience sexual satisfaction. The relative disadvantages of this technique are the rather high number of initial fistulas, the residual scar on the forearm, and the potential long-term urologic complications. Despite the lack of actual data to support this statement, the authors feel strongly that a multidisciplinary approach with close cooperation between the reconstructive/plastic surgeon and the urologist is an absolute requisite for obtaining the best possible results.
The multimodal no-compression suture technique is a rapid and feasible procedure that reduces the intensity of early and chronic postthoracotomy pain.
Anterior fusion is effective for the treatment of low-back pain due to degenerative disc disease, when associated to vertebral plate changes; as the pathology is mainly anterior. We prefer an anterior mini-invasive approach; furthermore, posterior elements are intact and canal exploration is unnecessary. However, an additional posterior osteosynthesis is preferable in Modic type II, as non union rate is increased by fatty degenerative involution.
The rolling cross-sectional design is methodologically feasible and may be useful as a complement to clinic-based VE studies. This pilot study did not have sufficient power to detect significant vaccine effectiveness during a mild influenza season, but this approach may facilitate rapid estimation of VE in a pandemic setting when normal patterns of health care utilization are disrupted.
The BMD results confirm our previous work (but at peripheral bone mass sites), and our findings associating bone resorption with dietary factors provide further evidence of a positive link between fruit and vegetable consumption and bone health.
We did not identify any evidence-based guidelines for perinatal and child health care in disaster settings. We found many Cochrane reviews that could contribute to the evidence-base supporting future guidelines. However there are important issues to be addressed in terms of the relevance of the available reviews and increasing the number of reviews addressing health care delivery.
This study revealed that certain triggers affected COPD and asthma patients to the same degree. Therefore, triggers and strategies for controlling modifiable triggers should be more concentrated on during education in both groups. However, the preventive effect of these strategies on disease progression, particularly in patients with COPD, needs clarification.
Thyroid surgery can be performed safely in diabetic patients, as they are not at a greater risk to acquire VFP than nondiabetic patients.
The results suggest that the NHIS is yet to achieve its goal of addressing the need of the poor for insurance against health related financial risks. To ultimately attain adequate equitable financial protection for its citizens, achieve universal health coverage in health care financing, and fully implement the World Health Assembly resolution, Ghana must reform enrolment policies in ways that guarantee pre-payment for the most poor and vulnerable households.
It is at least a necessary condition for the application of the Stewart-Hamilton equation, that core body temperature is kept constant in a thermo- regulatory steady state.
Whereas the cartilage thickness of the posterior condyles is comparable to other donor sites, the technical difficulty in obtaining plugs perpendicular to the articular surface precludes the use of the posterior condyles in anything but the rarest circumstances. Routine use of these 2 donor sites cannot be recommended.
The healing rate of non-healing VLUs of>3 months' duration in the no-compression groups was double that of VLUs in the compression groups. These findings have the potential for treatment modification if confirmed in a prospective trial.
Personnel absenteeism during a pandemic due to fear of contracting an illness may result in a significant personnel shortage. Ensuring worker confidence in adequate personal protection may be more important than financial incentives.
Adoption of CTPA appears to be associated with an increase in the diagnosis of PE after TJA and an associated decrease in case-fatality. Although CTPA may improve our ability to diagnose PE and possibly reduce mortality, the observed decrease in case-fatality could also be explained by the overdiagnosis of clinically unimportant emboli. The diagnosis of PE was strongly associated with potential iatrogenic harm from anticoagulation and increased length of stay and hospital charges in this study, emphasizing the importance of further investigation to define the role of CTPA in the diagnosis and treatment of PE after TJA.
An HDL cholesterol level ≥38.5 mg/dl was independently associated with lower risk for developing infectious complications in acute IS patients. Statins do not influence this association.
Patients' chief complaints and the resulting diagnoses are often within the same organ system. We found that a coordinator of care role for primary care physicians is appropriate for common neurologic, rheumatologic, and general complaints. A coordinator of care is not needed for specific specialty areas, including ophthalmology, dermatology, obstetrics/gynecology, urology, and otolaryngology, because patients typically can accurately self-refer to these specialists. Our study did not address reasons to use primary care physicians as coordinators of care, such as preventive care, patient preference, or cost effectiveness of care.
The (13)C-UBT is a noninvasive method exhibiting high diagnostic accuracy with both UHR as well as DOB. However, high false-positive results for (13)C-UBT were noted in children below 6 years on applying both UHR as well as DOB. Thus, this may not only be due to the effects of endogenous CO(2) production but also due to other factors.
Females with JNCL have a more precipitous decline than males, and die at an earlier age. Further studies are needed in order to provide possible explanations for this difference.
The results suggest that the early increase in HR during the first 10 minutes of the HUTT may not be a useful parameter for predicting the test result. Many factors, such as late exaggeration in sympathetic activity during HUTT and age-dependent reduction in baroreflex sensitivity, may attenuate the predictive value of early HR increase.
Patients in psychosomatic rehabilitation are strongly affected by occupational limitations and have a huge need for counselling and support. Therapy concepts should pick up the occupational problems at hand in a differentiated manner, with job-oriented linked-up rehabilitation being recommended. The increased mental strain of mobbing victims must always be borne in mind.
These results suggest that the distance from and type of traffic exposures are more significant risk factors than traffic volume for wheezing in early infancy.
Better functional and aesthetic features, and more destinations in the residential area of community-dwelling older persons were associated with more transportational walking. The importance of area characteristics for transportational walking differs by area size, but not by frailty level. Neighbourhood improvements may increase transportational walking among older persons, thereby contributing to living longer independently.
For the first time in the Allegheny County registry, and in any other registry, nonwhites showed a higher incidence of IDDM than whites. The high incidence in the 15-19 years age-group was responsible for this phenomenon. This epidemic of diabetes in adolescent nonwhites may be the result of a rising incidence of classical IDDM or another type of diabetes. Further studies using population-based registries are needed to determine whether this increase is being seen in other areas and other ethnic groups and to clarify the reasons for the increase in IDDM among blacks.
The incidence of postoperative DWI lesions in aortic valve replacement is high, and a suitable marker for neuroprotective trials would be a reduction in the number of such lesions. The volume of preexisting T2 lesions is related to the development of perioperative DWI lesions.
Results of the present study provide evidence that the TPB is a useful framework for understanding exercise intentions and adherence during phase II CR.
Among children hospitalised in Nairobi with fever and no obvious bacterial infective focus, there should be a high index of suspicion for malaria, followed by bacteraemia and UTI. Malaria parasitaemia does not appear to be associated with increased risk of bacterial co-infection.
This study established the content validity of the FSDS-R and demonstrated that the FSDS-R total score is a relevant endpoint for women with HSDD. The tool's one item specific to low sexual desire (Item 13) was given the highest score and highest relevancy of all items, and over half the sample felt that it covered all of their feelings about their low sexual desire.
The close temporal relationship between initiation of LEV intake, symptomatic colitis and clinical improvement following LEV tapering, suggests that colitis may be a possible and previously undescribed adverse effect of LEV.
Anaerobic blood culture can be avoided in most cases. Anaerobic blood culture may be most helpful when (1) bacteremia because of obligate anaerobes is clinically suspected, (2) patients are severely immunocompromised, and (3) source of bacteremia is not identified by clinical evaluation.
Women with more active sun exposure habits were at a significantly lower risk of VTE. We speculate that greater ultraviolet B light exposure improves a person's vitamin D status, which in turn enhances anticoagulant properties and enhances the cytokine profile.
The ability of a selection interview process to predict future performance in vocational training is highly dependent on careful design of both the assessment of performance and the selection process. The selection interview process of the RNZCGP compares well with international data.
There was no statistically significant loss of relative renal function in patients treated with partial nephrectomy and no significant gain in relative renal function in those treated with an upper pole salvage procedure. The reoperation rate was higher in the upper pole salvage than in the partial nephrectomy group (25 versus 4%). While not statistically significant, we believe that this rate is clinically important. We think that partial nephrectomy should remain the preferred treatment for most patients with obstructed duplicated kidneys.
Daily use of e-cigarettes while smoking appears to be associated with subsequent increases in rates of attempting to stop smoking and reducing smoking, but not with smoking cessation. Non-daily use of e-cigarettes while smoking does not appear to be associated with cessation attempts, cessation or reduced smoking.
In summary, an increase in sinus tachycardia may be initiated by RF ablation of atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT) and right free wall or left free wall accessory pathways. This finding shows that the modifications of heart rate are not directly related to the posteroseptal region or to the accessory pathways.
Many patients know that the law requires hospitals to provide care. This knowledge is associated with more frequent ED use. EMTALA changes might reduce ED use, but broader policy implications should be considered.
Data highlight that antitransglutaminase can occur in cardiological patients, and that these antibodies are related to the severity/extent of the myocardial tissue lesion. This feature suggests a loss of specificity for antitransglutaminase in CS. Furthermore, the possibility of employing these antibodies in the long-term follow-up of ACS, could become an object of interesting discussion.
BaPWV may be considered as a screening marker to predict MetS in community Chinese population and the diagnostic value of 1 350.00 cm/s was more significant for the female group.
Surgical resection of G-HCC provides OS comparable with that after resection of S-HCC.
AAR, Pohl, and platelet counts<100x10(9)/L have limited ability to predict significant/advanced fibrosis with area under the receiver operating characteristics curve similar to 0.5. However, platelet counts<150x10(9)/L, Lok's model and APRI performed well for advanced fibrosis in our daily practice setting.
When completing septoplasty and ITR through a Le Fort I, airway management need not be altered from standard protocol. The management of CONB in conjunction with orthognathic surgery is highly effective, with few complications. Non-segmental Le Fort I in patients at least 40 years of age is more likely to be associated with residual CONB, but the incidence remains low.
Although there is not much clinical difference when using the ST alone versus the STG construct, internal rotation weakness following harvest of 2 tendons may need to be evaluated further. We suggest that, whenever possible, only 1 tendon should be used when performing anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction with hamstring tendons.
In patients affected by endometriosis, the choice between expectant management versus intervention should be personalized: when the estimated probability of natural conception is low, surgery may be considered as a second-line treatment. Conversely, in all other cases surgery should be offered early (as a first-line approach) as it improves the chance of spontaneous conception. The laparoscopic treatment of infertility due to endometriosis must be performed by a skilled specialized surgeon to ensure a complete "pelvic cleanout" while respecting the anatomical structures and reducing the risk of fertility impairment due to surgical procedures.
A short 30-min session of moderate-intensity endurance-type exercise substantially reduces the prevalence of hyperglycemia throughout the subsequent day in type 2 diabetic patients. When total work is being matched, daily exercise does not further improve daily glycemia compared with exercise performed every other day.
Although the history of endometriomas does not appear to affect in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer outcomes adversely, there may be a benefit in the removal of endometriomas before in vitro fertilization.
EMBO may have salvaged many spleens, but splenectomy was required in 27% of EMBO patients. Patient selection is critical to successful management. Any hypotension in the face of a contrast blush probably warrants laparotomy. The combination of high grade injury and significant hemoperitoneum, or extravasation on angiogram, predict a high risk of failure and thus warrant a low threshold for splenectomy if bleeding persists. Technical EMBO considerations may impact success, but this requires further investigation.
In this stage-limiting analysis, we clarified the stratification according to clinical risk with the aid of MRI. For patients with low-risk factors, especially for elderly patients, radiation alone would probability be a feasible option. In the future, a randomized trial using criteria with MRI would help to identify the optimal strategy for patients with Stage II disease.
The novel method produced reliable determination of fHb in samples without interferences. However, poor recovery using commercially available fHb quality control samples currently greatly limits its usefulness.
The reliability of the OAB-v3 is poorer than that of the OAB-v8. The OAB-v3 is poorer correlated to the OAB-q than to the OAB-v8. A short questionnaire, such as the OAB-v3 and the 1-QoL, has poor reliability and is poorly correlated to the OAB-q and is not recommended as a replacement for the standard questionnaires, such as the OAB-q and the OAB-v8. The OAB-v3 should only be used in large screening populations where there are time limits.
By probing for evidence of clinical sympathy, the medical school interviewer may be able to verify whether the applicant's claims of altruism are authentic. Claims of altruism that have not been borne out in action should be viewed with skepticism.
CAS in nonagenarian patients carried increased risk of perioperative ischemic events, compared with contemporary trial results in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. Further, mean survival time postprocedure fell short of guidelines for receiving procedural benefit. Although larger scale multicenter research is needed, we recommend careful consideration of overall health status when contemplating stenting in nonagenarians.
BMSC transplantation is a promising strategy for the treatment of DCM. Pretreatment of BMSCs with 5-aza and DCM serum does not enhance their therapeutic efficacy, and the double intravenous BMSC infusion method is superior to single infusion for preserving cardiac contractile function in a rat model of DCM.
MCTD is a distict rheumatic disease. Sharp's criteria is the most reliable for diagnosis of MCTD.
Explanation of the etiology of the upper caliceal stone by the anatomic features is very difficult, and these caliceal anatomic variables (IPA, IL, IW) seem not to be a significant risk factor for stone formation in the upper calyx.
The palliative switch procedure appears a reasonable surgical option for patients with functional single-ventricle lesions, transposition of the great vessels, and systemic outflow tract obstruction. Patients who have undergone a palliative switch procedure are suitable candidates for completion of palliation with the Fontan procedure.
Partial least squares and related methods provide intuitive pointers toward the separation of linear age, period, and cohort effects. Because statistical algorithms cannot distinguish between relative and actual mortality rates, cohort effects may be underestimated because of contamination by negative age effects.
Differences in sexual behaviors do not fully account for African-American adolescents' increased risk for STDs. Interventions designed to reduce sexual risk taking among African-American adolescents may not ameliorate racial/ethnic differences in rates of STDs.
The extent of osteonecrosis in the femoral head significantly decreased after femoral head machining. Neither the residual osteonecrosis volume in the implant bony bed after femoral head machining nor the total amount of osteonecrosis before femoral head machining had significant influence on the survival of hip resurfacing.
Frequent discrepancies in burn assessment contribute to overuse of air transport. The ability to evaluate burn patients by telemedicine may have the potential to assist decisions regarding transfer, avoid errors in initial care, and reduce costs. We are currently attempting to develop and test such a system.
In a heterogeneous group of patients, %DLCO and %DLCO/VA do not independently predict the presence of PH.
Although there is a trend toward more conversions because of adhesions in patients with a history of prior abdominal operations (p = 0.078), no increase in morbidity resulted. Therefore, laparoscopically assisted right hemicolectomy can be offered to patients with PAO, whose rate of adhesions can be expected to equal that of patients with NPAO.
As opposed to miniplates, increased resorption may have been due to the stress-shielding phenomenon unique to a reconstruction plates. However, this did not seem to affect the ability to place osseointegrated implants.
In this practice-based analysis, readmissions after pancreatic resection were frequent, early, costly, and largely related to procedure-specific complications. As initial hospital stay continues to decline in high-acuity surgery, readmissions might be required for optimal management of complications, which often manifest later in the recovery course. Clinical pathway deviations predict potential readmissions, and might prompt adjustments in management and disposition of patients at risk for returning to the hospital.
Differentiated analysis by CM demonstrated that vitamins C and E inhibited PMN activation but were not able to prevent radical production by other sources. This offers a potential explanation why radical scavengers like vitamins only attenuate but ultimately do not prevent reperfusion injury.
Despite increased LOS and hospital cost, a mortality benefit exists at HV centers. Future studies are necessary to determine other processes of care that may exist at HV centers that may account for this survival benefit.
Our test cover letter to surgeons in our survey resulted in a significantly higher primary response rate than a standard cover letter when the survey was sent by mail. Researchers should consider using a more personalized cover letter with a postal survey to increase response rates.
Yawning has been described in relation to different selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and remitted following their discontinuation; it is interesting that the reported yawning in these two cases disappeared with the reduction of dosage, rather than the interruption of treatment.
Pravastatin therapy for patients with a history of myocardial infarction or unstable angina and average cholesterol levels reduces all-cause mortality and appears cost effective compared with accepted treatments in high-income countries.
Increased apoptosis of compressed HPCBs might help explain why cementoblasts, rather than invariably repairing all cases of root resorption, sometimes allow the original root length to shorten. The pathway hypothesized to lead to cementoblast apoptosis involves PDGF signaling, with this signal transduction's inhibition augmenting the expression of pro-apoptotic genes. Thus activating PDGF signaling may modify the signaling pathway for the apoptosis of cementoblasts, which would reveal a protective role of PDGF for these cells. Further studies are needed to develop strategies of treatment capable of minimizing root resorption.
The results indicate that craniosacral treatment can alleviate migraine symptoms. Further research is suggested.
Positive blood and tissue cultures are not predictive for hospital mortality and late treatment failure in patients with infective endocarditis. Positive valve cultures, a common finding in patients with staphylococcal endocarditis, are predictive for a higher risk of reoperation.
Many but not all patients surveyed in a pulmonary outpatient practice welcome a carefully worded inquiry about their spiritual or religious beliefs in the event that they become gravely ill.
The precision of setup evaluations using DRRs is similar to that achieved by using simulator fields when planning conformal prostate radiotherapy. The use of DRRs could reduce systematic errors introduced in the planning process.
Maternal- or pregnancy-associated disease states appear to influence BP in the early neonatal period. Diabetes and altered placental perfusion were associated with higher BP readings. Clinical significance of these statistically elevated BPs in the early neonatal period is unknown.
Despite an aggressive treatment, patients with FLHCC presented unexpected low survival rates. It seems that an underestimated malignant behavior is attributed to this disease, and that the forms of adjuvant treatment should be urgently evaluated.
Our valid elders are well nourished. The age, a good quality of life and a good support are protective factors. The risk of malnutrition is associated to a higher age, to institutionalization and to higher number of pathologies.
There were no significant short-term benefits for total laparoscopic compared with hand-assisted laparoscopic restorative proctocolectomy with respect to early morbidity, operating time, quality of life, costs, and hospital stay.
This study has shown that patients may benefit from arthroscopic repair of FAI and labral tears regardless of ACs. The level of improvement, however, is not constant across patients with different characteristics. Moreover, it appears that age may impact perceived improvement after hip arthroscopy. Hip arthroscopy as an intervention in patients with ACs provided positive outcomes, corroborating that an AC is not a contraindication for this procedure.
We found no evidence of biological differences between interval and screen-detected CRCs, consistent with the low sensitivity of guaiac stool testing as the main driver of interval CRC. The contribution of synchronous adenomas to occult blood loss for screening requires further investigation.
The findings showed that MRC has good correlation with ERC with regard to the location and anatomic details of cystic duct insertion. Although this does not generate a separate indication for MRC before laparoscopic cholecystectomy, the anatomic information can be of additional use when MRC is clinically indicated in this setting.
IL-18 is associated with inflammatory activity in gout, as well as with IL-6 levels, while IL-6 is associated with clinical and laboratory activity, the presence of tophi and articular deformities, and may be a prognostic marker of this pathology.
Of the metabolic factors, lower levels of HDL-C may be most useful for predicting CAD independent of other metabolic markers such as adiponectin, VFA or present medication.
Practice characteristics do not explain the differences in morbidity estimates between GPRNs.
Uninsured patients arrived more frequently during weekends and at night than insured patients. They were on average less likely to be admitted to the hospital. Demographic differences between both groups seemed to play an important role in the admission rate. Despite differences in emergency room usage patterns, it cannot be concluded that either group used the emergency room in excess of the other.
Correlations between fitness and thermal preference in natural isolates of C. elegans are driven primarily by isolate-specific differences in thermal preference. If these differences are the result of natural selection, then this suggests that the appropriate measure of fitness for use in evolutionary ecology studies might differ even within species, depending on the unique ecological and evolutionary history of each population.
3D data sets acquired with the SPACE sequence provides a high accuracy for local staging of prostate cancer. The use of indirect signs of ECE may be recommended in low D'Amico risk tumors to optimise patient selection for active surveillance or focal therapy.
Presence of cortical hyperechogenicity, cystic changes or bilateral reflux cannot be considered prognostic of renal failure by the age of 3 years.
Routine SIS for patients with normal TVS did not contribute additional findings. However, in patients with any suspicious findings on TVS (including extracavitary lesions), SIS was beneficial.
While infection and instability may have a negative influence for the clinical outcome, we did not detect any significant correlation between obesity and exiting complications. Obesity has no significant correlation to influence the outcome after TKA implantation negatively.
The phenomenon of sex concordance between patient and physician has increased in recent years, particularly in primary care. Nearly four of five patient visits to female primary care physicians are from women, and female physicians report performing more preventive health services for their female patients.
On the basis of these findings, we have stopped using the 'rimcutter' technique when implanting the Rimfit acetabular component and have reverted to the 'trimmed flange' technique.
Emotion dysregulation is a potential mechanism underlying the relationship between early emotional and physical maltreatment and the development of SUDs. In light of these findings, focusing on the early training of adaptive emotion regulation strategies after childhood maltreatment might be of considerable relevance to prevent the development of SUDs.
Nasogastric decompression can safely be omitted from a routine part of postoperative care after elective enteric anastomosis.
Compliance with hand hygiene among HCWs did not differ between contact precaution rooms and rooms with noncontact precautions with the exception of the nurses in the MICU.
People who contact the EMS about non-stroke conditions rarely say stroke, limb weakness, speech problems or facial weakness. These words are more frequently used when people contact the EMS about stroke, although many calls relating to stroke patients do not mention any of these keywords.
Radiation therapy to the symptomatic portion of a long bone affected by MM is effective for palliation. Symptomatic recurrence out of the irradiated field is uncommon and can be effectively treated. Potential benefits of this approach include irradiation of less normal marrow and elimination of use of pairs of fields or extended distance treatment to cover the entire femur.
Retail clinic visits were not associated with early return visits.
HealthPathways has achieved a high level of acceptance in both primary and secondary care, and has therefore acted as a valuable change management tool increasing healthcare integration in Canterbury.
The piggyback technique has some advantages, including less bleeding and absence of brachial plexus or phrenic nerve injury. Several other important considerations are discussed. In conclusion, the results with the piggyback technique are equivalent to those obtained with the standard approach.
Because of the higher surgery-related morbidity and mortality and lack of survival benefit in cases of advanced adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, intentionally incomplete palliative resection is not advisable.
In this study, 27% of all biopsies were positive for BXO. The results show that the diagnosis BXO must be based on biopsy, because clinical findings underestimated the incidence of BXO by almost 50%. BXO implies a higher incidence of meatal stenosis, urethral pathology and has a known association with penile carcinoma. We conclude that there is a place for routine biopsy of the foreskin after circumcision for pathological phimosis, taking into account the potential clinical consequences when BXO is diagnosed.
Simultaneous bilateral retinal detachment is exceptional, especially in a patient with no risk factors. The effect of radiotherapy on the vitreoretinal interface is discussed in the light of existing data and may have been responsible for our patient's retinal detachment.
The division branches of the IMA are extremely subject to interindividual variations, making it difficult if not impossible to reproduce identically a surgical procedure based on their anatomy. HT appears to us as the only relevant procedure for colorectal cancer.
Survival after aortic valve replacement is strongly related to patient risk factors but appears not to be adversely affected by moderate patient-prosthesis mismatch (down to about 4 SDs below normal). Aortic root enlargement to accommodate a large prosthesis may be required in few situations.
An appropriate clinical response to enzyme substitution therapy does not allow the prediction of a normal nutritional status in patients with chronic pancreatitis.
In women with symptoms of preterm labour before 34 weeks gestation, a model that integrates maternal characteristics, clinical signs and laboratory tests, did not predict delivery within 7 days better than a model with only fibronectin and cervical length.
Our data demonstrate that sexual health is infrequently addressed despite high rates of previous STDs and low condom use in this population. Identifying barriers to determining sexual risk behaviors in the primary care setting will help to expand testing strategies for HIV and other STDs.
Our results suggest that the St Gallen recommendations have had a major impact on clinical practice.
These data suggest SA is a valid diagnosis in the early phase of psychotic disorders considering it defines a subgroup of first episode psychotic mania patients with distinct characteristics compared to BD. While a dimensional approach to diagnosis may be more adapted to this phase of illness, SA disorder offers, in the context of categorical classifications, a useful intermediate category that reflects a clinical reality.
Replacing intravenous pyelography with NHCT scanning for the investigation of suspected acute urolithiasis does not result in significantly shorter stays, reduced hospital admissions or fewer interventions for patients.
Current findings showed a rate of roughly 10% of DM- at TURBT. Flat morphology emerged as the most significant predictor of DM-, whereas surgeon experience was not associated with DM-.
The PSP resection is a fast and safe procedure associated with low morbidity. However, the poor long-term functional outcome and the recurrence rate of 44 % warrant a cautious patient selection.
Our results disclose a clear inverse association between a pro-inflammatory genetic profile and H. pylori seropositivity among cases with CAG, supporting suggestions of enhanced elimination of H. pylori during the development of the disease.
This is the first study to demonstrate a prospective link between exposure to sexual content on television and the experience of a pregnancy before the age of 20. Limiting adolescent exposure to the sexual content on television and balancing portrayals of sex in the media with information about possible negative consequences might reduce the risk of teen pregnancy. Parents may be able to mitigate the influence of this sexual content by viewing with their children and discussing these depictions of sex.
Over long-term follow-up of ischemic and non-ischemic HF, the obesity paradox was only observed in patients with non-ischemic HF.
Mutation of the PCCB subunit p.R113X has not previously been mentioned in the literature. According to our present knowledge no connection can be assumed between either of the two mutations and the severe sensorineural hearing loss.
Since only age was a predictor of moderate or severe fibrosis, and no clinical or biochemical abnormalities detected slowly progressive hepatic fibrosis, liver biopsy is the only means of detecting progression to more advanced liver disease in a NASH patient.
The majority of inner-city girls in this study notified their partners about chlamydia infection. Self-protection from re-infection was an important reason given for notification and suggests that girls in committed ongoing relationships might be more likely to notify partners.
Susceptibility to develop cryoglobulins after hepatitis C virus infection was not associated with HLA-DR or DQ. HLA-DRB1*11-positive individuals were protected from serious chronic liver disease after hepatitis C virus infection. Immunoglobulin heavy chain constant gamma1 switch region restriction fragment length polymorphisms were associated with mixed cryoglobulinemia.
The normobaric oxygen paradox seems effective in increasing haemoglobin in non-anaemic, healthy volunteers, providing sufficient time is allowed between O2 applications. The exact time interval is not clearly defined by this study but should probably be at least or greater than two days. Further studies are needed to define more precisely clinical applications in the use of O2 as a pharmaceutical agent.
This study supports the hypothesis that routine pre-operative coagulation screening is unnecessary in hip fracture patients unless they take warfarin or have a known coagulopathy. Moreover, its omission represents significant cost-saving potential.
Interest in a career in trauma was increased among residents graduating from this single institution after instituting ATOM as part of the educational curriculum.
These results suggest that activated charcoal can be used safely for victims of acetaminophen overdose. A beneficial effect in preventing acetaminophen absorption can be expected if it is given within one hour after ingestion. If N-acetylcysteine is needed because of a toxic serum acetaminophen level, bioavailability can be ensured by increasing the N-acetylcysteine loading dose from 140 mg/kg to 235 mg/kg.
A bias was found towards underestimating mortality risk when cohort studies use national population death rates as a comparator. Estimates obtained when an internal comparison group has been used are probably more appropriate.
Short-term changes in air pollution may adversely affect cardiac disease but gender, and community education and income do not accurately identify those with increased susceptibility.
Low-calcium solution cannot be used as a standard solution, especially in patients with iPTH levels indicating mild or severe hyperparathyroidism, because in these patients iPTH may rise further.
In traumatic hemorrhagic shock, anastomosis safety does not appear to be affected by the type of fluid used for resuscitation. Moreover, LR, HES and HS all seemed to reinforce healing as effectively as transfused blood.
Our results confirm that stethoscopes used in emergency practice are often contaminated with staphylococci and are therefore a potential vector of infection. This contamination is greatly reduced by frequent cleaning with alcohol or nonionic detergent.
This study showed increased numbers of GICs in women of greater ovulatory age, and those who were not current smokers or ever used oral contraceptives. This provides some evidence that GICs may be caused by ovulation. The small number of subjects limited our ability to evaluate associations.
There was evidence that the increased risk of cancer associated with diabetes was confined to persons who reported low levels of physical activity, or who were overweight or obese.
Mental health services renewal in the CAF was associated with a better occupational outcome for those diagnosed with mental disorders. Longer delays to care were associated with a less favourable outcome.
The food choices of these individuals with regard to bone health is a cause for concern and indicates a likelihood of low calcium and vitamin D intake.
The rate of postoperatively discovered thyroid cancer is significant in patients with substernal MNGs and is increased when compared to patients with cervical MNGs. Surgeons should counsel their patients regarding the possibility of this unexpected result.
Proportion of KEPs using ED is high. Most of the admissions concerned usual seizures suggesting that staff training and educational programmes for patients and for their relatives need to be improved. The organization of the prehospital and of the emergency medical services should also be adjusted to this specific need. Further research should be conducted to optimize the seizure care pathway for KEPs.
The combined method of ligation and extra sclerosing of remnant small oesophageal varices after ligation does not have advantage in relation to the ligation alone.
While a majority of the population still follows the three-meal pattern, our analysis distinguished two other eating patterns associated with specific sociological profiles.
Maternal use of HBRAs does not seem to increase malformation risk. The tentative association with some intestinal malformations may be due to chance because of multiple testing and needs confirmation.
Effective delegation can potentially promote better management of workload to provide pharmacists with additional time to spend on cognitive pharmaceutical services. To do this, pharmacists' reluctance to delegate must be addressed. Lack of insight into own practice might be helped by self-reflection and feedback from staff. Also, a greater understanding of legal accountability in the context of delegation needs to be achieved. Finally, delegation is not just dependent on pharmacists, but also on support staff; ensuring staff are empowered and equipped to take on delegated roles is essential.
Microstructural properties of trabecular bone biopsies displayed a high degree of heterogeneity between vertebrae but did not differ significantly between the thoracic and lumbar spine. At the locations examined, bone microstructure only marginally improved the prediction of structural vertebral strength beyond QCT-based bone density.
The mid-term results of endovascular aneurysm repair were satisfactory. Although it was difficult to predict the fate of a sac after stent grafting, persistent type-2 endoleaks were observed to have a slightly negative impact on sac shrinkage.
Even though associated reactions were present in 29% of the subjects during moderate contraction of the contralateral muscles, they were not large, nor were they associated with contracture or spasticity, suggesting that this phenomenon is not usually a major problem for everyday function after stroke.
The study thus establishes Schoengastiella ligula as the vector of scrub typhus outbreak in Kurseong, Darjeeling. Preventive and containment measures with emphasis on reduction of man - vector contact were suggested to the state authorities to contain the outbreak.
The subjective evaluation of salty foods intake did not predict the 4-year risk of incident hypertension in this study population. Further investigations with a longer follow-up period are needed to clarify whether the present insignificant results are maintained for more than 4 years.
Many patients after a stroke are unable to successfully complete self-report measurement scales, including VAS.
FSC marks are of prime importance, and are the best marker for merit admission in medical college. Entry test is the tool for equalization in between different institutions, boards and provinces. It controls the errors and omissions done deliberately or unintentionally by students, board mal-practitioners and other confounders at institution and board level in FSC.
Findings confirm the role of culture and ethnicity in the perception of organisational values and the level of organisational commitment among nurses.
This study recommends piv-mecillinam or amoxicillin-clavulanate as empirical treatment of first time pyelonephritis in Danish children from 6 months of age. Age and gender of patients should be taken into consideration when initiating empirical treatment.
Increased levels of IGFBP-1 were found in both studied groups of women. Women with PCOS had higher serum levels of IGF-1 before the therapy and the treatment did not influence it. Contrary to it, in healthy women the increased value was observed. Explanation of that finding will become the aim of our next study.
Closely spaced and multiple births may have adverse long-term implications for parental health. Delayed entry to parenthood and increased use of fertility treatments mean that both are increasing, making this a public health issue which needs further investigation.
Although fine-needle aspiration has improved the performance of ultrasound, this 2-level procedure does not appear to achieve acceptable levels of specificity.
Hysteroscopic cannulation should be first choice in the management of proximal tubal obstructions in selected patients. It may be a treatment option for delayed occlusion after successful cannulation or resection anastomosis.
Under the existing severely degraded conditions of the Yangtze system, the sharply fall populations of Baiji and porpoises will not be suspended in the foreseeable future. Therefore, ex situ conservation should be emphasized, and the severely threatened Baiji in the river should be removed and translocated to semi-natural reserves for establishing viable breeding populations. The successful program of capturing, translocating and maintaining finless porpoises in the Shishou semi-natural reserve has demonstrated its adequacy as an ex situ environment for cetaceans. Following the successful pilot survey in the river, the immediate range-wide Yangtze cetacean survey is proposed and is in preparation. The range-wide survey is expected to ensure that any remaining Baiji can be found reliably and captured successfully after the survey.
We suggest that when very low vitamin D is documented, it be normalized before major prolonged exertion. We hypothesize that normalization of vitamin D before heavy exertion could perhaps prevent the severe muscle damage events and sequelae as was the case for this patient.
Hydration does have a substantial effect on the anteroposterior diameter, but it does not correlate with a substantial effect on the SFU grade; therefore, well-tempered sonography seems unnecessary.
Current symptoms were related to both current exposure to inspirable dust and respirable fibre. The decrements in lung function were related to the fibre constituent of the exposure.
Systemic mild-to-moderate hypothermia that is adapted to the duration of circulatory arrest is a simple, safe, and effective method of organ protection and can be recommended in routine aortic arch surgery with circulatory arrest and cerebral perfusion.
Levovist improves the diagnostic confidence of duplex scanning, but marginally. In inconclusive duplex scannings echo-enhancement can supply decisive informations.
The intervention was associated with a significantly higher rate of hospital admissions and did not significantly improve quality of life or reduce deaths. Further research is needed to explain this counterintuitive finding and to identify more effective methods of medication review.
Regarding the results of our in vitro study, the risk of further demineralization was significantly reduced with the use of TiF(4) and NaF after bleaching with 38% HP. TiF(4) was found to be more effective in preventing Ca2+ release owing to acid attack when compared with NaF. In the case of an intra-oral acidic exposure, the use of topical 1.5% TiF(4) and 2.1% NaF agents might be beneficial after bleaching with 38% HP.
The sensitivity, specificity and predictive values of the Gold Standards Framework Prognostic Indicator Guidance in this study are comparable to, or better than, results of studies identifying patients with a limited life expectancy in particular disease states (e.g. heart failure and renal failure). Screening utilising the Gold Standards Framework Prognostic Indicator Guidance in the acute setting could be the first step towards implementing a more systematic way of addressing patient need--both current unrecognised and future anticipated--thereby improving outcomes for this population.
These findings confirmed the higher capability of RM Y-STRs than conventional Y-STRs to resolve male lineages, thus suggesting a possible future use for forensic male individual identification.
This study demonstrates that a consultant-supported rapid assessment model using point of care testing significantly shortens the time patients spend in the emergency department.
If psychiatrists and other mental health professionals are to have a positive effect on how media depict mental illness, they will have to develop closer relationships with journalists and a better appreciation of media priorities and practices.
Female surgeons have first pregnancies later in life, fewer children, and report more issues with infertility. Assisted reproductive technology is implemented more often by female surgeons than the general population. Differences in fertility exist between specialties and warrant additional study.
Effects of normal aging such as loss of PCC co-activity could be detected by ICA, but not by signal time course correlation analyses of DMN inter-connectivity. This either indicates lower sensitivity of inter-connectivity measures to detect subtle DMN changes or indicate that ICA and time course analyses determine different properties of DMN co-activation. Our results, therefore, provide fundamental knowledge for a potential future use of functional MRI as biomarker for neurodegenerative dementias where diminished DMN activity needs to be reliably differentiated from that observed in health aging.
Pediatricians'judgments about the presence of psychosocial problems in their young patients seem to be based on their own observations rather than on what parents report. Physician-parent communication about psychosocial problems will be increasingly important as primary care physicians assume their role as gatekeepers to more expensive services such as mental health interventions.
The improvement strategies applied showed to be effective in detecting PIEAR, as well as the prevention of such errors. However, we must continue working with this strategy, promoting a culture of safety for all the professionals involved, and trying to achieve the goal that 100% of the analytical and samples are properly identified.
The multivariate analysis suggests chemotherapy has no effect on survival, but because of the wide confidence limits, a chemotherapy effect cannot be excluded. A study of this size is inadequately powered to detect small improvements in survival, and a larger randomized study remains the only way to truly confirm whether chemotherapy improves the results in high-risk MCC.
Our results confirm that the current standard of INR 2.0 to 3.0 for atrial fibrillation falls in the optimal INR range. Our findings do not support adjustment of INR targets according to previously defined stroke risk factors.
Making snacks less accessible by putting them further away is a potentially effective strategy to decrease snack intake, without risk of compensatory behaviour.
The incidence of clinically important coexistent disease in patients with prostate carcinoma who are referred for definitive radiation therapy is low. Therefore, contrast-enhanced abdominal and pelvic CT in addition to treatment-planning CT is of limited value.
Five-year overall survival improved as the number of sampled nodes increased. A thorough lymphadenectomy should routinely be performed to optimize staging and to improve survival of patients with early-stage rectal cancer.
AVR alone or AVR/CABG can be safely performed in patients ≥ 80 years with acceptable morbidity/mortality rates. An age of ≥ 80 years is not an independent risk factor predictive of increased in hospital mortality
An approach of high-intensity statin therapy will lead to a significant practice change, as the majority of CVD patients are not on high-intensity therapy. However, this change may be associated with a very modest reduction in statin adherence compared with low- to moderate-intensity therapy that is unlikely to be of clinical significance.
We conclude that, in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer, significant change in the pulmonary clearance of 99mTc-DTPA aerosol could not be demonstrated after radiation therapy. In such patients, clearance of the aerosol does not predict the development of radiation pneumonitis.
Obstetricians would require a larger increase in treatment effect before introducing more invasive treatments into practice. Although infant morbidity was perceived as a more important outcome, clinicians appeared willing to change practice on the basis of prolongation of pregnancy, a surrogate outcome. We found that there is not a single minimum clinically important treatment effect that will influence all practising clinicians: rather the effect size that will influence physicians is affected by the nature of the treatment, the reported outcome measure and the clinician's own current clinical practice.
The excess mortality patterns of the weekend effect vary widely for different diagnostic groups. Recognising these different patterns should help identify at-risk diagnoses where quality of care can be improved in order to minimise the excess mortality associated with weekend admission.
This paper demonstrates that simple urban/rural comparisons mask wide disparities in subgroups according to wealth. There is a strong relationship between poverty and chronic undernutrition in both urban and rural areas; this relationship does not change simply by living in an urban environment. However, urban and rural living conditions and lifestyles differ, and it is important to consider these differences when designing programmes and policies to address undernutrition.
Although relatively insensitive, an AST:ALT>or = 1 is highly specific but not diagnostic for the presence of cirrhosis in patients with chronic HCV infection. The ratio reflects the grade of fibrosis in these patients.
Help-seeking for nodding syndrome is pluralistic and include use of traditional and biomedical practices. Western medicines admittedly showed at least short term control on nodding syndrome symptoms, especially convulsions and led in a few cases to regain of functional abilities. However, multiple barriers hinder health seeking and interfere with adherence to biomedical treatments. Regarding cure, there are hitherto no treatments participants perceive cure nodding syndrome.
We concluded that middle-aged Danish men, who had frequent negative social interactions with their children, more frequently experienced fatigue. However, negative social interactions with spouse, relatives or friends were not associated with fatigue.
For the detection of bone metastases the specificity and accuracy of (18)F-FDG-PET/CT were higher compared to bone scintigraphy, while the sensitivity was lower. It is the opinion of the authors that both studies are complementary to final diagnosis.
Coronectomy appears to be a reliable technique to protect the IAN from damage. This procedure has a low incidence of complications. Endodontic treatment does not affect the success of this method according to our results.
The cumulative WB irradiation doses for patients with numerous radiosurgical targets were not considered to exceed the threshold level of normal brain necrosis.
The EFA is significantly correlated with the EFV. The EFA is a simple, quick method for representing the time-consuming EFV, which has been used as a predictive indicator of cardiovascular diseases.
Clinical assessment to date does not meet criteria for evidence-based diagnostics. Implications for research and guideline development are discussed.
There are differences between the hospital pharmacy practice in the studied hospitals in Canada and France. Hospital pharmacy practice in France seems to be more product oriented, and the practice in Canada seems more patient oriented.
In older animals, there is depressed PAP expression related to a blunted inflammatory response in AP which is associated with worsened bacterial infiltration and higher C-reactive protein level; this may explain the more aggressive clinical course.
There was a substantial increase in recent HIV testing between 2005 and 2008. Although there was a concurrent (non-significant) reduction in undiagnosed HIV, there was no difference in undiagnosed infection between men who had and had not tested recently. However, lower proportions of undiagnosed infection among the most recent HIV-positive testers suggest frequent testing could play a role in reducing undiagnosed HIV and should remain central to HIV prevention efforts.
Age does not predict the outcome from an MHDU. Those requiring ≥2 organ support, higher levels of pre-admission home support, or both had higher mortality. Selected elderly medical patients should not be denied high dependency unit care.
Between 2009 and 2011, the total amount of autologous breast reconstruction discharges was relatively stable, but the number of DIEP flaps increased significantly. Review of the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project Nationwide Inpatient Sample data shows that, compared with LD, pTRAM, and fTRAM flaps, the DIEP flap is associated with higher charges and costs.
Surgeon's experience influenced operating time and type of choledochotomy closure performed but had no influence on postoperative results of the laparoscopic treatment of common bile duct stones.
Although current ATA recommendations for the management of GD call for routine use of KI before thyroidectomy, this large series demonstrates no appreciable detriment to patient outcomes when this goal is not met.
In this prospective study the incidence of gynecomastia was not as high as previously believed. Although prophylactic breast irradiation seemed to decrease the gynecomastia rate in patients on 150 mg bicalutamide, our study proves that not all patients need prophylaxis since only 52% were significantly bothered by gynecomastia. Thus, individual assessment is needed to select patients who need prophylactic radiation while on 150 mg bicalutamide.
The shift of a sectorial right duct must be considered as one of the anatomic causes of HL. This finding must be considered when surgical treatment of HL is planned.
There is a missed opportunity for referring patients to genetic counseling, especially among patients with ovarian cancer. A pilot study suggests that alerting treating physicians is a feasible strategy to increase appropriate referral.
Ideas generated in this study provide an insight into participants' decision making and survey behaviour and may enhance the acceptability of future surveys to potential participants. As well as clear communication, participants valued incentives and survey questions that were relevant to them. However, opinions varied as to the preferred format for responses with some advising more opportunity for open-ended feedback. We also found that some standard format questions can raise quandaries for individual participants.
Despite lower socioeconomic status, Hispanic immigrants have better survival after prostate cancer than US-born Hispanics and this pattern was more striking among those living in ethnic enclaves. Identifying the modifiable individual and neighborhood-level factors that facilitate this survival advantage in Hispanic immigrants may help to inform specific interventions to improve survival among all patients.
As side effects of sildenafil are not caused due to inhibition of diamine oxidase, sildenafil citrate seems to be harmless for patients suffering from histamine intolerance.
Pilonidal abscess should be drained away from the midline.
All grafts are well-maintained until 12-months based on the ultrasonographic findings, although only 53% of the players returned to preinjury level.
RDW and MPV were significantly higher in the patients with AS than in the controls. While RDW was correlated with BASDAI and APRs, MPV was only correlated with APRs.
Patterns of change in the 2-minute walk are similar to those in the 20-m walk. Thus, separate retesting of the 2-minute walk may need to be reconsidered to gauge change in prolonged walking.
Findings of the ESCAPE trial are likely to be generalizable to most settings. The nomogram presented here can be used to predict cost effectiveness in a specific hospital.
Fatigued employees shared many important characteristics with CFS patients, regardless of burnout status, and many fatigued employees met CFS criteria and/or burnout criteria. Differences however concerned the causal attributions that were made. This raises questions about the role of causal attributions: are they modified by fatigue complaints or do they determine illness outcome?
The loss of phosphate after clinical kidney transplantation in the predamaged parathyroid hormone control system as well as immunosuppression and a surprising increase in the incidence of bone fractures may be explained by the denervation-related loss of phosphate. The lack of intestinal counter-regulation could be an important pathomechanism.
Our communication course measurably improved communication skills, especially for female students. These improvements did not depend predominantly on an extension of the interview time. Obviously, "technical" aspects of communication can be taught better than "emotional" communication skills.
This study supports the substantial benefits of smoking cessation, but also warns of important long-term alterations caused by heavy smoking.
The use of phenol 4% in aqueous solution is an effective and safe technique for neurolysis. Because of the potential risk of flaccid paralysis, this technique should be used in selected cases, far removed from motor nerves and the spinal cord.
Oral, intranasal and transdermal gel delivery modes of ET have beneficial effects on serum lipids, as shown by decreased t-Chol and LDL-Chol, and increased HDL-Chol levels in surgically menopausal women. The oral form should be used with care in women with hypertriglyceridemia and with increased VLDL-Chol levels. However, the oral route seems to be more effective in decreasing LDL-Chol levels than the percutaneous gel form.
Although we recognize the problems with death certification, we found that rupture was a significant cause of death in patients with an untreated AAA that was larger than 5.5 cm. Although little difference in outcome was observed in aneurysms in the 5.5 to 7.0 cm size range, patients with an AAA that was larger than 7.0 cm seemed to have a much poorer prognosis.
Newborns who are found to be SGA or LGA at delivery do not appear to have anomalous CRL growth patterns in the first trimester. The EFGR also did not correlate with birth-weight percentiles.
The findings support low levels of GGTP in amniotic fluid, combined with NVFGB, as a sign of severe disease, mainly biliary atresia. Normal GGTP levels, concomitant with isolated NVFGB, carry a good prognosis.
The study showed that spicing, as a step in kaddid meat processing to enhance the final product flavour, caused changes in the salted meat physicochemical and microbial characteristics and accelerated the drying rate. Convective drying at 30 °C is recommended to produce kaddid having the same characteristics as the traditional product.
Home prophylaxis with heparin does not reduce the incidence of VTE or overall mortality in patients with severe COPD.
The protein Z deficiency seems to be associated with a particular prothrombotic phenotype including early fetal losses as well as early and relapsing venous thromboses in patients carrying the factor V Leiden mutation. It is unclear whether or not it plays a role as a thrombophilic factor especially in the arterial vascular field.
Patient self-management performed at least as well as usual care in maintaining the INR within the target range, without any safety concerns. This treatment modality for the long-term use of warfarin has the potential to change current local and international practice.
Colonoscopy has been replacing barium enema examination as the initial colorectal examination since 1985. Increased use of colonoscopy in patients with lower risk of neoplasia suggests that indications have become overly broad.
Rather than being seen as competing alternatives, diverse approaches to improving the diets of schoolchildren should be considered in terms of their potential to be complementary and synergistic, acting at multiple levels to improve acceptability, fidelity, effectiveness and sustainability.
The findings of this study confirm the affinity of unilateral clefts for the left side but suggest that there are differences between clefts of the primary palate only and clefts of the primary and secondary palate. Also, non-right-handed patients show a greater predilection for having a cleft on the left side than do right-handed patients.
Intestinal helminth infection may be one of the risk factors for the development of active pulmonary TB in addition to HIV infection. This finding may have important implications in the control of TB in helminth endemic areas of the world.
In this contemporary cohort of men, lack of leadership (a type A behaviour component) contributed to the association between job strain and CIMT 15 years later, whereas pre-employment family factors had only a modest effect on this association.
Glutaraldehyde treatment (0.6%) does not play a significant role in the calcification of glutaraldehyde-treated tissue regardless of the origin, autologous or heterologous, of the tissue. Glutaraldehyde-treated autologous tissues are associated with an incidence of calcification lower than heterologous tissues.
Skin AF measurement is a valuable tool for the assessment of micro- and macrovascular complication risk in patients with light skin color types. Even after exclusion of patients with too low a reflectance, the current performance of the AGE Reader™ (DiagnOptics Technologies BV, Groningen, The Netherlands) was insufficient in darker-skinned patients.
Our results indicate an increase of oxidative stress in an animal model of human NB, especially in the early stages of growth. Yet, we did not observe an appreciable response in plasma antioxidant activity. Because an altered redox status has been implicated in tumor maintenance and progression, these findings support the notion of a complex oxidant-antioxidant imbalance contributing to NB growth.
The hospital discharge registry revealed numerous misclassifications, and the system was found not suited for surveillance of, or research in, bacteremia at present.
Further studies will be required to establish the diagnostic stability and outcome of very-late-onset schizophrenia-like psychosis in older black Caribbean migrants.
There appears to be a relationship between preinjury job perceptions and intent to return to the same type of job post pain treatment. However, subgroups of CPPs will differ by which job perceptions are important towards making that decision.
Home health services enabled recipients to remain at home 8 months longer, thus delaying nursing home entry. Given the increase in prevalence of comorbidities and disability, we anticipate a concomitant increase in support services at the nursing home. These results may inform policy and staffing decisions regarding adjustments in required caregivers' credentials and nurse-patient ratios.
The data suggest that features of the bacterial genotype might facilitate the development of multidrug resistance in particular lineages. Better understanding of the mechanistic basis for correlations between drug resistance and genotype could potentially be exploited to develop molecular tools for the prediction of resistance development.
SMT is effective for the treatment of chronic nonspecific LBP. To obtain long-term benefit, this study suggests maintenance SM after the initial intensive manipulative therapy.
In the assessment of the ovarian mass, the use of 3D ultrasonography significantly improves the prediction of malignancy as compared to patient characteristics and 2D ultrasonography.
Compliance with underage alcohol sales laws by licensed retail establishments may affect underage alcohol use indirectly, through its effect on underage use of commercial alcohol sources and perceived ease of obtaining alcohol. However, use of social alcohol sources is more strongly related to underage drinking than use of commercial alcohol sources and perceived ease of obtaining alcohol.
Patients with suspicion of CBD stones but normal EUS findings have a low risk of needing ERC in a 1-year period.
There is misunderstanding and poor knowledge of family history of cancer and the type of information required to make a family history even in a sample of people teaching and researching medicine and health issues. Public understanding of the value of family medical history in cancer prevention and management is important if informed clinical decisions and appropriate health care are to be delivered.
General obstetrician-gynecologists are more likely to refer high-risk obstetric patients if the MFM specialist practiced only MFM and high-risk obstetrics.
This historical example shows how the nursing profession faced the perceived threat to its professional boundaries. It also shows how competing goals of building community lay nursing capacity and protecting professional boundaries can be effectively managed.
Intracoronary application of adenosine prior to coronary angioplasty increases tolerance of ischemia and prevents deterioration of left ventricular hemodynamics during ischemia. One potential explanation of these results is that induction of ischemic preconditioning took place.
Sleeve resections are technically challenging, especially concerning the tension in the suture and size mismatch. In our series, there was no significant difference between the two groups regarding parameters directly related to the anastomosis. The interrupted suture without telescoping is the most cited technique, can be performed in several variations and can universally be used with good ability to compensate size mismatch. The telescoping continuous anastomosis is less time- and material-consuming and is especially valuable for large-calibre bronchi and relevant size mismatch.
In this large population-based registry of UK patients admitted to hospital with ACS without ST elevation, those aged over 70 are at substantially higher risk of adverse events than younger patients. However, they are less likely to receive treatments of proven benefit or to be investigated with a view to revascularisation. A more aggressive approach to these patients may be more appropriate and is likely to result in substantial benefits.
The WHtR was as sensitive as the 2007 WHO BMI in screening for metabolic risk factors in 6-10-year-old children. The public health message "keep your waist to less than half your height" can be effective in reducing cardio-metabolic risk because most of these risk factors are already present at a cut point of WHtR≥0.5. However, as this is the first study to correlate the WHtR with inflammatory markers, we recommend further exploration of the use of WHtR in this age group and other population-based samples.
It would appear that only angiomatous antrochoanal polyps present with epistaxis. Detection of the characteristic gross appearance of these polyps may help avoid unwanted surgery. Histopathological analysis confirms the diagnosis. A significantly increased number of plasma cells may be the underlying cause of the histological changes seen in angiomatous antrochoanal polyps.
These preliminary results suggest that there may be a seasonal pattern of birth for subtypes of ADHD. If season of birth serves as a proxy for the timing of seasonally mediated viral infections, it may lead to a greater understanding of the etiology and pathophysiology of ADHD.
We demonstrated that isolated acetabular revision is feasible and that grafting to the osteolytic femoral defects is a worthwhile procedure to restore bone stock.
There was a benefit to testing for CD4 cell count in the first 48 weeks of treatment, to identify patients who have immuno-virological discordance and therefore a higher risk of progression to AIDS. However, after 48 weeks of antiretroviral treatment, for the 'responder' patients in the ARTEMIS trial who had both HIV-1 RNA below 50 copies/ml and rises in CD4 cell count equal or above 200 cells/μl, there appears to be little clinical benefit from continued testing for CD4 cell count.
A clinical trial in fALS may be feasible although such a trial would likely require prolonged follow-up and would require a therapeutic agent with a large clinical effect in order to be adequately powered.
Not all risk factors in CHA2DS2-VASc score carry an equal risk, with age 65 to 74 years associated with the highest stroke rate. Oral anticoagulation should be considered for AF patients with 1 additional stroke risk factor given their high risk of ischemic stroke.
We found no superiority of diagnosis with SPIO-MRI, which may not be conceptually useful for preoperative screening for MLC from colorectal carcinomas. SPIO-MRI may be useful to detect non-cancerous lesions as an adjuvant diagnostic tool with eCT.
Our data suggest that the IFI16 protein may be involved in the pathogenesis of glandular inflammation occurring in pSS.
This prospective, randomized comparison reveals that there are small but consistent early postoperative hemodynamic differences among current third-generation porcine and pericardial aortic valve prostheses. The 3 valves studied performed equally well in patients with a small (≤21 mm) aortic annulus. The Magna valve had a slightly lower mean gradient in those with larger annular size (>23 mm). Longitudinal follow-up of these randomized cohorts is essential to determine late clinical implications of these early postoperative findings.
We failed to demonstrate that IORT changes survival and recurrence outcomes. However, patients with clinical indications for IORT at the time of PE have worse prognosis compared to those who do not require IORT. If the need for IORT is anticipated, the surgeon may consider performing a LEER to decrease local recurrence if cure is the goal or consider palliative treatment options.
Pediatric hospitalizations for CDC are on the rise. Partial colectomy is performed more often than total colectomy without statistical compromise of mortality, length of stay, and total hospital charges. Further studies are needed to determine the standard surgical management of pediatric CDC.
Performance characteristics for barium esophagograms in our group of patients were similar to PET-CT in predicting tumor response. Both tests were inadequate in predicting tumor response.
A synchronized pulsing rotary blood pump offers a simple and powerful control modality for heart unloading. This technique provides pulsatile hemodynamics, which is more physiologic than continuous blood flow and may be useful for perfusion of the other organs.
Infant proximity-seeking during immunization is associated with attachment security and parallels behaviors observed during the SSP. More research is needed to identify behavioral markers of disorganization.
Bryophytes include but are not inherently shade plants. Light-saturation levels for species of open sun-exposed habitats are lower than for vascular sun plants and are probably limited by CO2 diffusion into unistratose leaves; this limit can only be exceeded by bryophytes with ventilated photosynthetic tissues which provide increased area for CO2 uptake.
The number of complications encountered in children who had central venous access of the subclavian vein or internal jugular central vein with intraoperative fluoroscopy was infrequent, the number of misplaced catheters was minimized with intraoperative fluoroscopy, and all children with pulmonary complications showed clinical signs suggestive of pulmonary complications before postoperative chest x-ray. Therefore, children who have had central venous access of the subclavian and internal jugular vein with intraoperative fluoroscopy do not appear to require a routine chest x-ray after catheter placement unless clinical suspicion of a complication exists.
The IKDC subjective is more useful than the KOOS questionnaire to evaluate both patients with recent ACL ruptures and those in the first year after ACL reconstruction.
Low iron levels are associated with increased levels of both cFGF23 and iFGF23, independent of low grade inflammation. A similar analysis of cFGF23 and iFGF23 does not suggest enhanced biodegradation of iFGF23 induced by iron deficiency.
There is a statistical association between recent cannabis use and lower frequency of nonmedical opioid use among PWID. This may suggest that PWID use cannabis to reduce their pain and/or nonmedical use of opioids. However, more research, including prospective longitudinal studies, is needed to determine the validity of these findings.
For intermediate-sized upper-tract stones, when allowing for up to two SWL treatments, there was no significant difference between treatment modalities. Thus, SWL is a reasonably successful treatment alternative for patients who are not fit for a general anesthetic or who prefer SWL over competing treatments, provided they accept a potentially higher number of treatments.
These findings suggest that there is considerable need for physical activity interventions in this population. Adults feel great responsibility for their own physical activity levels, but also attribute responsibility for promoting increased physical activity to health care practitioners.
In our own practice, patients undergoing SEMS as a "bridge to surgery" have the same long-term survival with those undergoing elective surgery. This finding needs to be confirmed in larger scale studies.
As the phenotype of visceral obesity HTGW was more common among Chinese adults. Global lifestyle modification should be targeted at adults with HTGW to prevent the premature incidence of DM and reduce the burden in future in China.
Nurse-led follow-up of IBD patients produces PRO results comparable to that of gastroenterologists and may shorten the interval from the beginning of a relapse to the start of treatment.
This SDH video curriculum improved resident self-assessed screening competence, parental perception of screening, and both MLP referrals and formula distribution.
In most settings, FPs could easily implement the patient-driven bedtime basal insulin protocol used in this study.
This experimental model is reliable and reproducible. The initially high mortality seems to decrease with the experience of operators. The CP significantly increases intra-pulmonary bacterial proliferation when the inoculation is low. A high inoculum neutralizes the effect of CP. These results suggest that enhanced prevention of micro-inhalation could be beneficial in cases of CP.
Overall, there were no differences in job satisfaction or autonomy among NPs by practice setting. Retail NPs felt less valued and were less satisfied with social interaction, but more satisfied with benefits compared to NPs in traditional settings. NPs working in retail clinics were less likely to have intentions to leave current position compared to NPs in traditional practice settings.
Simple mastoidectomy combined with broad spectrum antibiotics is the therapy of choice. Our results indicate that anticoagulants represent a safe treatment option if they are administered correctly.
Prevalence of COPD and smoking (indicator of avoidable morbidity attributable to primary care) are substantially lower than the reference data. The lung function questionnaire is valid. There was evidence of inter-professional variability. Women smoke more, are more dependent and are less motivated to quit. Their family and social perception is worse. These investigations are essentials for community intervention and operational planning.
Both N-acetylcysteine and active-site-inactivated factor VIIa showed powerful anti-inflammatory properties in experimental acute pancreatitis. As they exert their effects through different physiological mechanisms, they represent potential candidates for future multimodal treatment of acute pancreatitis.
We conclude that insertion of SEMS via flexible bronchoscopy is a safe and effective therapy for those individuals who require palliation or are too unfit for the general anaesthesia required for surgery. Moreover, this form of stent insertion may be performed by respiratory physicians in the bronchoscopy suite, rather than by their cardiothoracic counterparts in theatre.
This article identifies the similarities and variations between two syndromes receiving chiropractic intervention that included ancillary therapy. Certain conditions, including cervical radiculopathy, seem to respond well to chiropractic spinal manipulative therapy. However, in other conditions with similar symptomatology, appropriate referral may be necessary for the condition to respond. Alternatively, adjunctive or ancillary therapy may be indicated to improve the effect of the chiropractic intervention.
Washing the biopsy needle with povidone-iodine did not have an effect on the infection rates. Antibiotic prophylaxis and cleaning the biopsy equipment is adequate for low infection rates.
This mixed-methods study has found that a majority of patients with DR-TB in Mumbai did not follow DO, and this was reported by patients and care-providers. These data likely reflect the reality of DO implementation in many high-burden settings, since this relatively small cohort was supported and closely monitored by a skilled team with access to multiple resources. The findings raise important concerns about the necessity of DO as a "pillar" of DR-TB treatment which need further validation in other settings. They also suggest that patient-centred adherence strategies might be better approaches for supporting patients on treatment.
The fitness sector is growing rapidly and more than 50% of members suffer from musculoskeletal problems. Most of these also receive treatment for their problems but there is very little and almost no formal communication between the health care sector and the fitness centres.
The EVAR-2 trial conclusions are in opposition to the practice of French vascular surgeons. Endovascular treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms in high-risk patients is justified. This study confirms the importance of a multidisciplinary treatment for high-risk patients in high-volume centers.
In this series, flow diversion for the treatment of MCAAs was safe, was effective in the treatment of fusiform MCAAs, and was not as effective at mid-term for MCA bifurcation aneurysms. Unsatisfactory occlusion rate in bifurcation aneurysms likely results from residual filling of the aneurysms in cases in which the jailed side branch remains patent.
In as many as 39% of in-hospital self-poisoning fatalities, the care received may be in some way sub-optimal. The challenge for clinical services is to ensure that optimal management strategies are implemented in practice.
Even though majority (70%) of the patients knew the cause of their fistula from the health talks, some (32%) would still not change from risky obstetric behavior. Mandatory provision of accurate and appropriate information and education to all VVF patients and their relatives or spouses by trained counselors should be ensured. Such information and education should emphasize the etiology and management of obstetric fistula in order to prevent a recurrence.
Adenosine seems to impair the LVEF obtained with gated SPECT in patients with a normal perfusion scintigram. Further evaluation is necessary to elucidate how adenosine exerts this effect and also, whether this finding has a prognostic value in patients with a normal perfusion scintigram.
Bacteraemia caused by P. aeruginosa remains an important cause of morbidity and mortality. Pancreatobiliary disease represents a new risk factor for P. aeruginosa bacteraemia, independent of an underlying malignancy or immunosuppression. It may be prudent to consider P. aeruginosa as a cause of sepsis in these circumstances, especially if there has been instrumentation of the biliary tree. Hypotension, age of 60 years or older, and the presence of an underlying malignancy were independently associated with significantly increased mortality. Appropriate antibiotic therapy consisting of an antipseudomonal beta-lactam in addition to an aminoglycoside resulted in a significant decrease in mortality compared with the use of an aminoglycoside alone, not only in the study population as a whole, but also in patients without neutropenia.
PLA1/A2 polymorphism is associated with MI, however not as a dominant risk factor, but as a part of environmentally influencable multigene system. There is no relation between genotypes of the PLA1/A2 polymorphism and the lipoproteins plasma concentrations. (Tab. 4, Ref. 17.)
The prevalence of antimalarial myopathy is higher than previously recognised when muscle enzyme determination is used as a screening method. When a persistent muscle enzyme disturbance is observed, clinical and electromyographic studies should be undertaken periodically to detect the development of clinical myopathy. In cases of clinical myopathy, an anatomical-pathological tissue study, including an ultrastructural study, is mandatory to confirm the diagnosis.
PF joint OA was highly prevalent, more so than TF joint OA, and even in individuals ages<50 years. Further research is needed to elucidate the cause and effect relationship between chronic PF pain and PF joint OA.
This exploratory study showed that the lifestyle intervention was effective in improving cardiopulmonary fitness and body composition. Effects of body composition were maintained in the long term. However, the intervention needs to be optimized to increase muscle strength and for long-term retention of effects on aerobic capacity.
Psychiatry and primary care training directors, except in family practice, generally agree that psychiatry training in primary care programs is inadequate and should be significantly enhanced. There should be more communication between psychiatry and primary care training programs for optimal curriculum development.
Our data provide valuable information for the replacement of VACV by MVA for testing chemical biocides and disinfectants. Because MVA does not replicate in humans this would eliminate the potential risk of inadvertent inoculation with vaccinia virus and disease in non-vaccinated laboratory workers.
Given the large variation in the proportion of deaths recorded as discharged to a hospice rather than as in-hospital deaths, there is the potential for significant distortion of actual performance. Failure to consider this potential may misguide efforts directing performance improvement, research, and national reporting. Discharges to a hospice should be included with in-hospital deaths when reporting risk-adjusted mortality.
The VHL tumor suppressor gene may be causally related to aneurysm formation through the effects of transcription factors, growth factors, and matrix metalloproteinases. Although a single point mutation is unlikely to be responsible for the complex phenotype of intracranial aneurysm, further research on aneurysmal domes and VHL gene expression may help validate the theory that extracellular matrix destruction is the final common pathway to aneurysm formation.
The results of this study provide support to evidence-based inquiry that questions the relevance of traditional nursing practice activities such as listening to bowel sounds as an indicator of the end of POI.
The use of RFA to treat patients with symptoms caused by saphenous reflux involves a small but definite risk of DVT. This study shows that the risk of post-RFA DVT is greater in patients with previous DVT, with a trend toward an increased risk in patients having treatment of the SSV. Periprocedural anticoagulation may be considered in this subset to reduce the risk of DVT after RFA. Thrombus protrusion without DVT was found to be more likely in patients with hypercoagulability, male sex, SSV treatment, and aspirin use. Additional prospective studies are required to analyze these and other factors that may predict thrombotic events after endovenous RFA.
IOP elevation was not observed during the long-term follow-up period. In addition, the numbers of injection and preexisting glaucoma did not affect IOP changes.
Despite major limitations of retrospective design and small patient numbers, our results suggest that rivaroxaban may exacerbate intracranial haemorrhage in patients with mild TBI. Further studies are needed to characterize the risk profile of this drug in patients with tICH.
The results of the present study suggested that the level of serum p53 antibody seems to be of limited value in the demonstration of dedifferentiation in thyroid cancer patients.
Most donors reported skimming and not having difficulty understanding the educational materials. Some donors may be aware that they should not donate or are failing to assimilate the information in the materials. Methods to present information more clearly and concisely are clearly needed. However, some high-risk donors may still continue donating no matter how improved the educational materials are.
This palliative care curriculum was associated with a sustained (>6 months) improvement in medical residents' opioid prescribing practices. Further research is needed to understand the changes that occurred and how they can be translated into improved patient outcomes.
For both low-risk and moderate-to-high-risk patients, higher provider volume is associated with lower risk of death.
We conclude that the suppression of AVP expression by GCs is not mediated solely by the down regulation of PC1, PC2 or 7B2. Other mechanisms, which may contribute to the GC-induced posttranslational suppression of AVP, are discussed.
In our study population, better functional outcomes and fewer wound complications were associated with subtalar fusion for the treatment of symptomatic posttraumatic subtalar arthritis after initial open reduction and internal fixation of a displaced intra-articular calcaneal fracture as compared with subtalar arthrodesis for the treatment of symptomatic posttraumatic subtalar arthritis secondary to calcaneal malunion following initial nonoperative treatment.Initial open reduction and internal fixation restores calcaneal shape, alignment, and height, which facilitates the fusion procedure and establishes an opportunity to create a better long-term functional result. We recommend open reduction and internal fixation for the treatment of displaced intra-articular calcaneal fractures when appropriately indicated.
The data obtained support the hypothesis to routinely perform a tenodesis of the LHB during hemiarthroplasty for treatment of fractures of the proximal humerus to improve pain and have better results.
ADC values in normal-appearing basal ganglia and brain stem correlated with outcome, independently of all MR imaging findings including those of DWI. ADC values in visibly abnormal brain tissue on DWI did not show a predictive value for outcome.
Our data suggest that charity air medical transportation organizations should encourage their pilots to acquire commercial certification. Furthermore, our study indicates areas in which general aviation training/currency should be directed to reduce fatal accidents.
It is important to know what the different aggregates of development assistance for health reported in the different databases mean before deciding which ones to use to answer a particular policy question. Using the wrong source can lead to erroneous conclusions.
Abnormal liver status tests were correlated with serum food-specific IgE concentrations in adults. Future research with longitudinal design or in clinical settings may be warranted confirming or refuting the observations made in the present epidemiological study.
The use of the keratin 8 antibody in normal cervical smears enabled the detection of endocervical cells in cases where they were thought to be absent, particularly in cases with severe inflammation. Staining with keratin 17 enabled the identification of reserve cells or immature metaplastic cells, which were often misinterpreted as parabasal cells. The application of antibodies to these subtypes of keratins in cervical cytology can to a certain extent help in the identification of CIN and may in future be tested in automated screening.
Our results indicate that most of the patients with long-standing RA require continuous DMARD treatment. If the treatment is discontinued, patients should be followed-up closely and DMARDs readministered without delay if the disease flares up.
Applying the new cleaning technique utilizing gelatin sponge particles to microcatheters after NBCA ensures that they are clean enough to be reused.
Despite significant differences in age, etiology and co-morbidities, differences in treatment between men and women treated at a multidisciplinary HF unit were small. Mortality at 1 year after treatment analysis was similar for both sexes.
Bax, cytochrome c, and caspase-8 protein expression failed to independently predict survival in parotid cancer patients. However, patients with bax (-) or caspase-8 (-) tumors should be considered as candidates for adjuvant radiotherapy in order to achieve better local disease control.
Current evidence does not support a role for corticosteroids in the management of ARDS in either the early or late stages of the disease. More research is required to establish the role of steroids in specific subgroups of patients with severe sepsis and early ARDS who have relative adrenal insufficiency and patients with late ARDS 7-14 days after the onset of disease.
Changes in lipid levels can explain all or most of the observed benefit of pravastatin. Some treatment effect may also be mediated through nonlipid changes.
IOM was associated with better clinical outcomes and some increased hospital charges among discharges of simple spinal fusions and laminectomies in a large, multiyear, nationally representative dataset.
Chromosome 3q gain represents an important shared pathway to tumorigenesis in cervical and anal neoplasia. Multiple potential diagnostic roles exist for this easily performed test in the evaluation of anal neoplasia.
No significant increase in carboxyhaemoglobin is produced during laparoscopic surgery, even under closed-system anaesthesia without pulmonary carbon monoxide elimination. This is most likely due to a low peritoneal absorption of carbon monoxide. We conclude that in adult patients, no carbon monoxide intoxication is caused if reasonable periods of electrocautery are used and the intraperitoneal gas is regularly renewed.
Young-old and old-old patients with MDD had comparable rates of remission after open-label escitalopram, and both age groups had much lower rates of relapse on escitalopram than on placebo.
The tissue donation program performed by trained students was successful in achieving a high and sustainable tissue donation rate in a large university hospital.
These ultrastructural studies suggest delayed subcellular adaptive responses in the chronically hypoperfused myocardium of patients with ALCAPA syndrome.
These results suggest that not only the amount of atherosclerosis, but also arterial remodeling and lipid deposition in plaques, are influenced by systemic factors. The nonhomogeneous distribution of inflammation in atherosclerotic arteries supports the hypothesis that plaque inflammation is locally affected.
These findings refute the claim that there are differences in the experience of e-learning of plastic surgeons by generation. Furthermore, there is no evidence that there are differences in whether there should be access to e-learning and how e-learning should be provided for different generations of plastic surgeons.
Even with the use of supplements, more than a one-third of children failed to meet calcium and vitamin D recommendations. Children 2-8 years old had nutritionally adequate diets regardless of supplement use. However, in children older than 8 years, dietary supplements added micronutrients to diets that would have otherwise been inadequate for magnesium, phosphorus, vitamins A, C, and E. Supplement use contributed to the potential for excess intakes of some nutrients. These findings may have implications for reformulating dietary supplements for children.
Trauma patients have a low risk of readmission. In contrast to elective surgical patients, the only modifiable risk factor for readmission in our trauma population was SSI. Other risk factors may present clinicians with opportunities for targeted interventions, such as proactive follow up or early phone contact. With future changes to health care policy, clinicians may have even greater motivation to prevent readmission.
Atrial based pacing does not improve QoL in the two years after pacing when compared with VVI(R) pacing.
Our findings suggest that MTM eligibility criteria are not optimally targeted to capture underuse of and poor adherence to evidence-based medications. Policymakers should weigh the pros and cons of loosening restrictive MTM eligibility criteria to target patients with potentially greater needs.
With a complete cure rate for low-risk GTN regardless of initial agent, our model supports provider hesitation toward first line Act-D for low risk GTN. While Act-D is more effective for first line treatment success, it is more costly, and does not decrease rate of multi-agent chemotherapy use.
Patient-reported service quality deficiencies were associated with adverse events and medical errors. Patients who report service quality incidents may help to identify patient safety hazards.
Perceived injustice was associated with both physical function and pain intensity in bivariate correlations, but was not deemed as an important predictor when assessed along with other demographic and psychosocial variables in multivariable analysis. This study confirms prior research on the pivotal role of catastrophic thinking and self-efficacy in reports of pain intensity and physical function in patients with acute traumatic musculoskeletal pain.
Patients with incarcerated abdominal hernias who underwent laparoscopic repair had a significantly lower 30-day morbidity compared to patients with open repair. Although the 30-day reoperation and mortality rates were also lower, there was no statistically significant difference. Laparoscopic surgery appears to be safe in the management of select incarcerated abdominal hernias.
In our study HIV infection did not affect the alfa-interferon treatment response of chronic hepatitis C, and response could be achieved among HIV-coinfected patients. Present therapeutic anti-HCV schedules need to be proposed to HIV-HCV coinfected patients before severe immunosuppression occurs. On the other hand, more severe biological and histological parameters were observed among HIV-HCV coinfected patients, which suggests a need to study whether HIV infection is associated with a worsening course of chronic hepatitis C.
Low-dose ITG achieved better outcome than ITD in the control of vertigo attacks in patients suffering from unilateral MD, with a very low incidence of hearing deterioration. ITD offers poorer vertigo control rate, and hearing preservation is achieved only in cases with no vertigo recurrences.
CT venography of the pelvis during CT pulmonary angiography does not significantly improve the detection of VTE. CT venography may be limited to the lower extremities, thus reducing radiation dose.
The infrequency of subspecialty consultations and operative interventions, and significant payer mix differences between facial trauma patients relative to the current ambulatory surgery population of the covering subspecialties poses economical challenges for both the hospitals and providers that use the traditional coverage models.
Countries with a pronounced burden of HIV may also have an increased burden of non-communicable diseases such as hypertension with potential economic and health systems implications.
Retinal vessel caliber was wider in the children of East Asian ethnicity. This difference was explained principally by darker iris color. Retinal pigmentation, as approximated by iris color, could be an important source of error in the measurement of retinal vessel caliber. If confirmed, this may affect comparisons of retinal vessel caliber between subjects with different ethnic backgrounds.
The results from this in-vitro study indicate that the presence of pravastatin in bile may not influence gallbladder bile lithogenicity. It can be hypothesized that this also applies to other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.
Though mild hypogammaglobulinemia does not meet the classical criteria for hypogammaglobulinemia (<5g/L), the etiology and infectious risk are similar. It therefore requires investigation and vaccination.
The degree of agreement between primary care physicians and rheumatologists regarding the predefined clinical referral criteria was variable. Agreement was very poor for variables like inflammatory back pain, which are crucial for the diagnosis of Spa. Training programs for primary care physicians are important in order for them to correctly identify early Spa patients.
Once possible confounders are controlled for (age, sex, previous academic performance) undertaking an iBSc does not influence third year exam results. One explanation for this confounding in unadjusted results is that students who do better in their second year exams are more likely to take an iBSc before their third year.
Reoperation for gastrinoma excision resulted in elimination of disease in 30% of patients and should be considered for patients with imageable disease.
LCE, Tönnis angle, and extrusion index can be measured on MRI with comparable results to radiography. The ACE angle on radiographs cannot be estimated reliably from MRI.
A better identification of patients with a lack of observance is possible by crossing several techniques to assess adherence of the patient to his antiosteoporotic drug.
While ET itself is not a tauopathy (i.e., a neurodegenerative disorder among whose main features are accumulation of hyperphosphorylated tau protein), ET may predispose individuals to accumulate more widespread cellular tau aggregates, and thus tau could play a central role in the cognitive impairment that can accompany ET.
In this HMO, an opt-in disease management program appeared to be associated with a significant reduction in health care costs and other measures of health care use. There was also a simultaneous improvement in HEDIS measures of quality care. These data suggest that disease management may result in savings for sponsored managed care organizations and that improvements in HEDIS measures are not necessarily associated with increased medical costs.
Compared with SD-PEG, LV-PEG+Asc exhibited equivalent bowel-cleansing efficacy and resulted in improved patient acceptance and preference. There was no significant difference in mucosal injury between SD-PEG and LV-PEG+Asc. Thus, the LV-PEG+Asc preparation could be used more effectively and easily for routine colonoscopies without risking significant mucosal injury.
The edge-to-edge technique is a well tolerated and useful technique for the anterior or bileaflet prolapse of the mitral valve. Although many techniques have been described with good results, in many anatomical settings and in small patients, edge-to-edge is a good option and might not interfere with the growth of the valve. Early results are encouraging but a longer follow-up is needed to evaluate the long-term prognosis.
I852M sequence variations represent genuine RET mutations, falling into ATA class A of weakly activating RET germline mutations.
Communication of diagnosis of a fetal anomaly can be a traumatic event and should be dealt with consequently. Given the therapeutic value of sharing traumatic experience such practice should be encouraged as part of the consultation process.
TIO resulted in femoral head containment in all cases. Lateral acetabular coverage changed during the growing years in all patients. Surgical correction beyond 44° of CE angle and -6° of ARA should be avoided to prevent pincer morphology later.
Matrix and ossification front changes were frequently observed and significantly associated with cartilage canals suggesting that they may be physiological changes associated with matrix remodelling and development. The collagen structure was variable through the growing epiphysis and a differential in biomechanical properties at focal sites may predispose them to injury.
DfPS best practice guidelines were not fully met by any of the pharmacy labels in this sample. With unimpaired vision, label design had little impact on legibility. However, the results provide evidence that preparing pharmacy labels according to DfPS guidelines improves their relative legibility in simulated visual impairment. These findings need extending to those with actual visual impairment, but the current results strengthen the argument for conformance to DfPS guidelines.
Relapse of Hodgkin's disease after treatment is usually detected as a result of the investigation of symptoms rather than by routine screening of asymptomatic patients. It is therefore proposed that the frequency of routine follow up visits should be reduced and greater emphasis placed on patient education. This should underline the importance of symptoms and encourage patients to arrange an earlier appointment if these develop.
There is no evidence that putting infants to sleep in the supine position results in increased morbidity, although changes in prevalence of rare disorders would not have been identified.
Depression in males between the age of 20 and 50 years is related to an increased risk of developing DM.
There is a mandate for the dental profession to improve health outcomes and quality of life. The prevention of third molar-related morbidity should be included in dental research efforts. The authors suggest that novel preventive methodologies be developed to alleviate the problems third molars pose. One potential methodology suggested is intentional therapeutic agenesis of this tooth.
This study confirms that survey nonresponders may have some different characteristics and risk factor screening rates than responders. However, if confirmed by others, nonresponders who have risk factors identified may not be managed differently than responders.
The RMA for subcondylar fractures is feasible and safe. Dislocated condylar neck fractures are associated with a highly increased risk of temporary postoperative FNP as a surgical complication.
This finding suggests that variations in preceding regional suicide incidence might be mirrored in subsequent changes in voting behavior. A speculative post hoc explanation for the finding is offered: on a community level, suicide's aftermath might produce socially and politically alienated survivors of suicide who co-shape swings towards opposition parties in subsequent general elections. The finding calls for more research on suicide's long-term aftermath.
The use of fracture-specific stems during proximal humeral hemiarthroplasty for fracture appears to improve functional use of the injured shoulder and tuberosity healing compared to conventional stems.
Achieving the benefits of the PCMH model in small rural practices may require additional national promotion, technical assistance, and financial incentives.
At our institution, the recurrence rates for PTC were similar for all sizes of tumors. Furthermore, presence of metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis, rather than tumor size, seems to be a better predictor of recurrence and outcome.
Substantial dose differences were present in all of the simulated treatment situations but more apparent when the OAR was located outside the treated volume in both phases. Our findings require verification in clinical cases but nevertheless indicate a need for fractionation-corrected doses in two-phase treatments both in the daily clinical routine as well as in the modelling of late radiation effects. Our data suggest that adjusting for fractionation effects would lead to lower tolerance doses than currently suggested, in particular for OARs with parallel tissue architecture.
WES and TGP are considerably lower-cost alternatives to WGS. However, this does not imply that these NGS approaches should be preferred in clinical practice, since this should be based on the tradeoff between costs and the expected clinical utility of the approach chosen. The results of the present study contribute to the evaluation of such tradeoffs.
Polycystic ovary syndrome does not predetermine a single ultrasonographic and Doppler pattern.
The numerous demographic, clinical, and psychopathological overlapping characteristics in unipolar and bipolar mania raise questions about the general nosographic utility of this categorization. Nonetheless, our data suggest a clinical and prognostic validity of keeping unipolar manic patients as a separate subgroup, in particular, as social adjustment and disability are concerned.
These findings indicate that apparent gender bias in the preoperative cardiac management of this group of women who underwent vascular surgery may have had no detrimental effect on short- and long-term incidence of cardiac death and complications, and may represent sound clinical judgment rather than true bias. However, the possibility that female patients might have had even better short- and long-term cardiac results if they had undergone more preoperative cardiac revascularization cannot be discounted.
Except for unsteadiness when standing, there was no difference according to age in individuals with lacunar stroke with respect to side effects potentially related to lowering blood pressure. Although the lower SBP target was not associated with lower likelihood of recurrent stroke, these exploratory analyses suggested a possible benefit related to vascular death.
Complementing prenatal counseling on CDH and FETO by standardized information via website is perceived by parents as of added value. Maternal risks and the need for fetal medication need more clarification during the verbal counseling prior to prenatal interventions.
The public release of information on caesarean section rates in Korea has reversed the ever-increasing trend in these rates. Hospitals with pre-existing high caesarean section rates or a larger number of deliveries were influenced by the information release and could be the main targets for interventions to decrease these rates.
Until we have more evidence-based documentation that fluid intake of eight glasses (2 liters) per day improves some aspect of an elderly person's health, encouraging a fluid intake above a level that is comfortable for the individual seems to serve little useful purpose.
Two-stage liver resections are beneficial if both stages are completed and an R0 resection is achieved. While there is increased morbidity and mortality, we believe that staged liver resection for colorectal metastases is a valuable strategy in selected cases.
Although sorafenib had modest efficacy in melanoma, these results suggest a correlation between exposure and efficacy of sorafenib. Therefore, dose optimisation in patients with low exposure at standard doses should be evaluated in validated indications.
Most young women have already made the decision to have an abortion before they approach their GP or a family planning clinic to request one. At present, counselling is voluntary in the UK. Requiring women to undergo couanselling would delay the process and for most women would be an unnecessary burden, whilst also diverting resources from those women who require counselling.
The calcium loads had no significant effect on the markers of bone formation and resorption measured, although even small calcium doses decreased serum PTH and increased serum ionized calcium concentrations rapidly. The effect was similar whether calcium was taken in the morning or in the evening.
Units with DCIS detection above the NHSBSP guidelines have significantly better small invasive cancer detection rates. The existence of an upper limit for DCIS detection within the NHSBSP may be preventing the detection of small invasive cancers, because units are not recalling some small clusters of calcification in order to keep DCIS detection rates down. The upper limit may therefore be inappropriate.
Our study demonstrates that ultrasound measurement of cervical length and fetal height do not show better results than BS in predicting the outcome of post-term pregnancy. Combining these ultrasound measurements has already been suggested in other studies and promising results have been shown. More studies are necessary to further these results.
It is obvious that while the provision of curative health care can be left to the hands of the private suppliers, that of preventive health care needs strong government involvement. It is suggested that deliberate efforts be taken to shift resources from curative to preventive measures. One way in which such a strategy can be attained is for the government to set, as a condition for private operators, a minimum level of preventive measures to be provided by every operator before a permit is issued. However, caution should be taken to ensure that such deliberations do not discourage investors in the health sector.
PAP in children from la Réunion Island is characterized by an early onset, associated liver involvement, poor prognosis and frequent progression to lung fibrosis, despite whole-lung lavages treatment. The geographic clustering of patients and the detection of many familial links between most of the cases strongly suggest a genetic etiology, with an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance.
Findings suggest that programs with high hospital use may do well to re-examine and adjust the intensity of day center care. Greater focus on service provision in this setting may enhance care coordination and lead to reductions in hospitalizations, better outcomes, and cost savings.
We did not find clear evidence for an association between serum vitamin D levels and cardiovascular disease risk factors. Our results, consistent with the limited evidence from randomised trials of vitamin D supplementation and Mendelian randomisation experiments, suggest that the postulated link between serum vitamin D and cardiovascular disease may be non-causal. Instead, it may be attributable to confounding by lifestyle factors such as obesity and physical inactivity which may provide more fruitful targets for cardiovascular disease prevention.
CPH32 required significantly fewer sutures for bleeding control along the stapler line after circular mucosectomy. However, operation time, rate of postoperative complications and patient satisfaction were similar in both groups.
Women with symptomatic fibroids pre-UAE had impaired quality of life and sexual function, but size and location of fibroids as determined by MRI were not related to fibroid-related symptoms, health-related quality of life, or sexual function.
During quiet respiration, lower limb venous Doppler tracings consisted of both cardiac and respiratory waveforms. Although respiratory waveforms disappeared when patients held their breath, Doppler tracings continued to be multiphasic and cardiac. Therefore, cardiac phasicity in lower limb venous Doppler tracings does not necessarily indicate cardiac disease. Other respiratory phases can modulate this basic cardiac pattern. Decrease in or loss of phasicity in these waveforms does not always mean proximal obstruction, because it can be caused by respiratory factors. Finally, the presence of minimal cyclic retrograde flow that is 5 cm/sec or less does not necessarily indicate cardiac disease.
Prematurity was associated with lower cognitive school readiness skills. Typical occurring preschool did not eliminate this association. Findings suggest that simply expanding the preschool enrollment is inadequate to address the developmental needs of premature children from disadvantaged backgrounds.
CSII in children<6 years of age enables better long-term metabolic control and lowers the risk of severe hypoglycemia better than MDI, especially when initiated at diagnosis.
Intravenous propofol infusion does not alter PTH levels significantly during the operation. Therefore, we believe the intraoperative PTH assay can be used safely during propofol sedation when parathyroid surgical procedures are being performed.
Antibiotic drug restriction is prevalent in North America, and medical infectious disease specialists do not generally recognize surgical expertise in the area of infectious disease. Despite this environment, responding SIS members believe that special credentialing of surgeons in the area of infectious disease is unnecessary.
Ranibizumab was clinically effective in the long term but the change of treatment from bevacizumab to a half-size molecule with less half-life in the vitreous such as ranibizumab contributed to a transient "instability" in the eye which may have triggered the large subretinal hemorrhage. There is insufficient experience reported in the literature in switching from one agent to another. A prospective study with controls is necessary to determine whether it is safe to change from one medication to another.
There is no convincing evidence of excessive decline in FEV1 with exposure to coal dust>0.75 mg/m3. The absence of a dose response relation provides some evidence against a causal relation. On the basis of this study, reduction of the exposure standards currently applied to brown coal dust in the Victorian electricity industry is not warranted to prevent respiratory disease.
Time sources in this health care system varied considerably. Time recording in medicine could be made more precise by synchronizing medical clocks to UTC, using computers to automatically "time stamp" data entries and using only digital time sources with second displays.
The use of a simple goal achievement and variance coding scheme has been relatively straightforward to incorporate into the daily practice of the unit. It provides useful information on rehabilitation process and outcome after brain injury that is complementary to the utilization of disability measures.
Ephedra may be associated with left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Withdrawal of this agent, in conjunction with proven pharmacotherapy, results in a significant improvement in functional status and left ventricular ejection fraction. We recommend specific enquiry into the use of over-the-counter supplements, particularly ephedra and its derivatives, when being evaluated with heart failure symptoms. These cases illustrate the potential risk of ephedra and provide additional support for the recent decision to ban this supplement.
AVC is associated with incident coronary and CVD events independent of Framingham risk factors. However, AVC fails to improve cardiovascular event prediction over Framingham risk factors and CAC.
A significant difference was observed in gallbladder volumes in the group with biliary obstruction from choledocholithiasis compared with the group with biliary obstruction from other causes. Thus, objective measurement of gallbladder volume from modern cross-sectional imaging studies appears to validate Courvoisier's sign as a valuable clinical sign, which could be applied to modern imaging studies in distinguishing different causes of biliary obstruction in the jaundiced patient.
Hepatic metastases from neuroendocrine tumors are best managed with a multidisciplinary approach. Both HAE and surgical resection provide excellent palliation of hormonal and pain symptoms. In select patients, surgical resection of hepatic metastases may prolong survival, but is rarely curative.
Routine use of PET/CT for preoperative staging did not impact disease management for 96.8% of our patients. The results of our study conclude that PET/CT should not be routinely used for primary staging of colorectal cancer. More studies are required for identifying the subgroup of patients who might benefit from a PET/CT in their initial staging.
Time may be superior to motion tracking metrics for performance assessment during proficiency-based simulator training. Nevertheless, in this study one third of trainees benefited from motion analysis metrics by having their training duration extended. Further study is needed to establish the value of motion metrics during simulator training and their impact on operating room performance improvement.
The bold initiative and newer strategy of the programme to engage agencies for BMs maintenance services is worthwhile and should be continued and could be considered for replication across the country.
Working conditions seem to partly explain the increased rate of disability pension among men and women with lower education even though this association does reflect considerable selection effects based on factors already present in late childhood.
Practices with high levels of deprivation and older patients have increased rates of recorded chronic disease. As the number of patients recorded with chronic disease increased, the capacity of practices to meet patients' requests for appointments in advance declined. The capacity of some practices to detect and manage chronic disease may need improving.
Implantation of a standard 19-mm aortic valve in elderly men with aortic stenosis may be associated with an increased risk of operative mortality. A higher performance valve and/or a root enlargement procedure should be considered in men with a measured 19-mm anulus.
A structured antenatal surveillance program for fetuses identified as SGA results in a lower risk of adverse fetal outcome, compared with cases of SGA fetuses not identified antepartum.
Professionals believe that collaboration is essential for women with complex needs. Perinatal and infant mental health clinicians are skilled at building relationships with women, however further support is needed to build trusting relationships with other service providers. Women service-users also need to be involved in the collaborative process to become equal partners in their care.
In conclusion there was no association between t-PA genotype and VTE in this group of Turkish population. It was also found that genotype frequencies for t-PA in both VTE and control subjects seems different from those reported from western part of the world.
Currently, there does not appear to be a widespread role for nerve grafting at the time of radical prostatectomy.
Survival has increased in England since the mid-1990s in the context of strategic reform in cancer control, however, survival remains lower than in comparable developed countries and continued investment is needed to close the international survival gap.
Funding to support Indigenous health research through the People Support scheme has increased since the NHMRC adopted policy changes in 2002, but it has not reached the targeted expenditure of at least 5% of agency allocations. The Capacity Building Grants have been a more effective vehicle for funding researchers from Indigenous backgrounds.
Bipolar episodes were common in men with depressive symptoms during their partner's pregnancy in the postpartum period and, to a lesser extent, 12 months after childbirth. Therefore, this population should be carefully investigated for manic and hypomanic symptoms.
Greater hospital cultural competency may improve overall patient experiences, but may particularly benefit minorities in their interactions with nurses and hospital staff. Such effort may not only serve longstanding goals of reducing racial/ethnic disparities in inpatient experience, but may also contribute to general quality improvement.
Poland's syndrome can be combined with ipsilateral presence of lung bullae, a common cause of pneumothorax. Whether this finding is part or a variation of the syndrome needs to be confirmed by a larger number of similar cases.
In our study, no relationship was found between the presence of pulpal calcification and CAC in ESRD patients on haemodialysis and renal transplant recipients. Therefore, the presence of pulp calcification does not seem to serve as a diagnostic marker for carotid atherosclerosis.
We propose several hypotheses that could explain why male ungulates may not balance their reproductive investment between pre- and post-copulatory traits.
There is a small but notable annual incidence and cost of orthopaedic trauma implant waste in the study region with the majority of this cost borne by the hospitals. However, implant waste occurs infrequently and represents a very small cost to hospitals per procedure. Educational programs and other strategies to reduce its incidence are unlikely to yield any substantial cost savings.
Treatment variables do not accurately or usefully identify severity status. As a corollary, there is little difference in severity between patients receiving different treatment regimens, and actual measures of severity rather than treatment surrogates are required to assess RA severity.
Regarding diagnostic yield, complication rate, and biopsy-related mortality, there seems to be no difference between the frameless biopsy technique from Medtronic and BrainLAB®. In contemporary time, the neurosurgeon has many tools to choose from, all with a relatively fast learning curve and ever improving feasibility. Thus, the issue of choice involves not the results, but the familiarity, end-user friendliness, and overall comfort when operating the system.
Increasing influenza vaccination of the medical staff did not substantially increase patient vaccination. These results do not show any patient benefit from staff vaccination in primary care.
Laparoscopic VH is a simple technique involving no urinary anastomosis or drainage, but we cannot guarantee that the crossing vessels are the sole etiology for PUJO. Following our experience, only patients with type 3 anatomical variations and with a normal pelviureteric junction should be proposed for VH.
Switching to the patch or ring may improve refill behavior for women who have problems refilling OCs timely; however, the magnitude of the improvement may fail to improve ultimate contraceptive efficacy by simply switching to the patch or ring.
Continuity of care was associated with a reduction in resource utilization and costs. As healthcare delivery systems are designed, care continuity should be promoted.
Primary healthcare centres appear to lack the training and equipment to manage common paediatric emergencies. We recommend standardization of equipment and algorithms, training and assessment of key personnel, and critical incident reporting within primary healthcare centres.
Simultaneous bilateral endoscopic carpal tunnel release under local anaesthesia is well tolerated by patients. The technique may be of benefit in young, active, high-demand patients who require fast recovery, early return to work and less disability time.
The study supports previous findings about the added value gained by longterm improvement of instructional skills after participation in even a brief workshop. The meaningful improvement in instructor availability to students is associated with the workshops' emphasis on a learner-centred approach and the need to provide continuous feedback.
Based on our study it seems justified to exclude gallbladder specimens from histopathological examination based on the absence of macroscopic abnormalities. A more selective policy will reduce medical costs, saving EUR 1.3 million a year in The Netherlands alone, whilst maintaining patient safety.
The negative correlation and the high odds ratio for poor performance suggest the value of monitoring attendance and identifying students at risk for poor performance (more than 30% absence). Lower absence rates did not predict performance.
The SFVS promoted an increase in fruit intake after three months. At seven months the effect remained significant but reduced, and it returned to baseline in year 2 when pupils were no longer part of the scheme. There was a small impact on the intake of some nutrients across the children surveyed.
The study results indicate that the +1675 G/A AT2R gene polymorphism cannot be considered as a marker of LVH in patients with AS, but its negative influence on LVEF in A allele carriers may be considered as a marker of premature left ventricular decompensation in males.
The continuous measures led to more efficient sample sizes and to rejection of the null hypothesis of no intervention effect. However, the difference in sensitivity of the continuous measures was not statistically significant, and the performance of the categorical measure depends on the researcher's categorical cutoff for accuracy. Continuous measures of patient accuracy may be more sensitive and efficient, while categorical measures may be more clinically relevant.
Successful revascularization effectively reduces major amputations and leads to healing of ischemic ulcers. Secondary foot infections are frequent. Infections are associated with a significantly higher rate of minor and major amputations, also in patients with successful revascularization, and should be treated adequately as well as in time with antibiotics.
Basketball players seem to have a higher risk of PE than their peers from the general population. More studies are needed to confirm these findings and identify factors predisposing them to PE to contribute to its prevention.
When PAIRS or CLUSTERS of seriously injured patients arrive in close time proximity, they are more likely to be directly admitted to the operating room than patients arriving ALONE. This difference in management does not appear to affect patient outcomes.
Tumor ADCs obtained with high b-values could predict prostate cancer aggressiveness as effectively as systematic TRUS-guided biopsy.
Preoperative administration of B&O suppository results in significantly decreased postoperative pain and 24-hour morphine consumption in patients undergoing RALP.
The empirical relationships derived in this cohort do not support the need to scale myocardial epsilon and SR derived from 2D speckle or TDI for any index of LV morphology.
These data suggest that a personalized cardiorespiratory target zone for this population should be set according to the published literature, and that consideration of the individual menopausal characteristics seems to be unnecessary.
Thus, the Sigma RPF prosthesis provided a significant additional flexion gain in patients with 90-120 degrees preoperative flexion, and less than 20 degrees flexion contracture. Patients with a preoperative flexion greater than 120 degrees were exposed to a decrease in flexion range whichever implant was used, RP or RPF.
This study indicates a significant gain over the last decade in the percentage of IM residencies offering structured teaching of cardiopulmonary auscultation. This same gain did not occur for FP programs. Whether these differences in attitudes and teaching practices will translate into improved auscultatory proficiency of IM trainees will need to be determined.
These data suggest that p63 and CK5/6 are specific determinants for sweat gland carcinoma in the stated setting. In the absence of those analytes, metastatic breast carcinoma cannot always be identified to the exclusion of a primary tumor. This diagnostic scenario continues to require the procurement of a detailed clinical history regarding the number and duration of skin lesions in any given case.
The clinical practice will show whether a preoperative calculation of expected prosthesis length in MS based on the length of the formerly used stapes prosthesis is possible and helpful.
Diltiazem inhibits the release of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-6, which is strong evidence for its anti-inflammatory effect. It is clinically important to inhibit the inflammation that takes place during CPB and the inflammation of myocardium encountered after ischemia-reperfusion, since these effect the clinical status of the patient after CPB, as well as myocardial functions.
The management of epidural analgesia during labor was associated with the potential for increased risk of cesarean delivery. This risk increased with higher stations of the fetal head at the time of epidural catheter placement and with more frequent epidural boluses of local anesthetic during the first stage of labor.
Although MRI, CSF and pathologic examination help in differential diagnosis of the mass lesions, close follow-up is still crucial for the definite diagnosis. A higher MS conversion rate was found in patients with a younger TDL onset age.
Poorer familiarity with Medicare may affect beneficiaries' ability to access needed care effectively, may lead them to delay or avoid seeking care, and ultimately may have negatively affect the quality of the health care that they receive and their outcomes.
These anatomical dissections will provide reference material for further ultrasound studies on the arrangements of neuro-vascular structures in reference to superficial palmar creases.
Increased PI and RI of MCA are closely related to measures of increased aortic stiffness.
The intensity of symptoms before surgery may interfere as a predictive factor for outcome.
When costs as opposed to charges are considered and the cost of long-term care for neurologically injured infants is taken into account, trial of labor after previous cesarean is unlikely to be associated with a significant cost saving for the health care system. Recent government-mandated length-of-stay requirements are likely to make the economic benefit of vaginal birth after cesarean even less favorable. Factors other than cost must govern decisions regarding trial of labor or repeat cesarean.
We present a diagnostic dilemma in an elderly female with both Legionnaire's disease and Epstein-Barr virus infectious mononucleosis with pulmonary involvement.
This study has revealed a high demand among medical students for global health teaching, particularly on women's and children's health in low-income countries. The timing and methods of existing teaching on these topics does not match that desired by medical students. To help address this gap, a collaborative approach is proposed which includes students' views in the processes for revitalising medical curricula to meet the needs of the 21st century.
For determining the evacuation priority, we suggest a triage system based on three major criteria: mental status, hypotension and a penetrating injury to the trunk. Overall, the set of trauma alert criteria system can be further simplified and enable better utilisation of resources.
The effectiveness of routine surveillance imaging for detecting treatable melanoma recurrences is limited. Even in patients with stage III disease, only minimal gains in life expectancy were achieved.
The FM label does not have a meaningful adverse affect on clinical outcome over the long term. Further research is necessary to document the short- and long-term effect of labeling in the chronic pain patient.
Although so-called pattern recognition techniques bear high promise in improving clinical decision making, the results should be presented with caution and preferably in comparison with a less complicated technique.
The incidence of lymph node metastasis in GISTs in our database is 20.7%, which is surprisingly higher than we thought from other previous studies. In contrast to the group without lymph node metastasis, these patients tend to be of older ages and had rare location of the primary tumor. This result supports further study with larger sample size.
Through lesions greater than CIN 2 were more often overlooked when referral smears were negative, ASCUS, AGUS or LSIL than when they were HSIL or cancer, the real reason that the lesions were not detected by colposcopy was that they were small.
This study shows that it is safe and justifiable to consider surgical treatment of a severely dislocated proximal humerus fracture in selected patients aged 75 and older.
For supine chest radiograms the NIP technology allows for a dose reduction of 50% while providing higher image quality.
These findings confirm the pitfalls of fitting body-mass power laws and suggest using muscle-girth methodology as a more appropriate way to scale or normalize metabolic variables such as max for individuals of different body sizes.
These results strongly suggest that the recipient site affects some characteristics of transplanted hairs, such as their growth and survival rates.
CTnI is a specific and sensitive marker for evaluation of perioperative myocardial ischemia (PMI). Additional determination of CK-MB activity does not provide further clinical information. CTnI should be the marker of first choice in CABG surgery.
The use of detailed and explicit appropriateness criteria for colonoscopy significantly enhances the identification of relevant lesions and in particular of colon cancer. The use of such criteria could therefore improve patient selection for colonoscopy and thus contribute to efforts aimed at enhancing the quality and efficiency of care.
The uncorrected rates of pregnancy loss and of early premature delivery among patients with multifetal pregnancy reduction who underwent subsequent amniocentesis were comparable to those of patients with multifetal pregnancy reduction who did not undergo amniocentesis.
Routine surveillance imaging practice should be critically reviewed for children with RMS. Although our findings must be validated by larger studies, they do have substantive implications. Reduced imaging tailored to the risk and pattern of recurrence, associated risks and cost could improve patient quality of life and decrease health-care expenditure without compromising outcome.
This study does not support the use of prophylactic indomethacin in severe cerebral palsy patients undergoing PFR. We also question the importance of HO in the outcome of this procedure.
Transsacral fixation/fusion may allow for safe lumbosacral fusion without iliac fixation in the setting of long-segment constructs in carefully selected patients. This study was retrospective and suffered from some loss to followup; future prospective trials are called for to compare this technique to other, more established approaches.
The CorX system is safe and feasible in patients undergoing CABG. Despite of markedly reduced inflammatory reaction, no clinical benefit was observed.
The midterm overall survival and disease-free survival rates in this group of patients with resectable colorectal metastases to the liver, who were treated with combination of resection and chemotherapy, were similar, regardless of the sequence of treatment.
Although TED was the most frequently seen disorder in patients with very high D-dimer value, very high D-dimer was not necessary exclusively the marker of TED. Other disorders such as massive bleeding, status post CPR, sepsis with DIC, multiple traumatic injuries, hyperfibrinolysis and HELLP syndrome can also have very high D-dimer.
Patients with symptomatic urolithiasis who are admitted on the weekend are less likely to undergo surgery than those admitted during the week. However, the likelihood of intervention was similar among the patients with complicating factors. Physicians appear to treat the sickest patients the same, regardless of weekend admission; more elective surgical care may occur during the week.
Pain experienced during venepuncture can be significantly reduced by using EMLA or Indian classical instrumental music. The difference between VAS scores with LA and music is not always significant. Hence, the choice between EMLA and music could be dictated by logistical factors.
Lipoprotein(a), the variance of which is known to be overwhelmingly due to the apo(a) isoforms, proved to have a significant inverse independent association with a measure of abdominal obesity. Lipoprotein(a) levels appeared not to be associated with risk for MS or CHD among men. In women, however, high Lp(a) levels were accompanied with an environment less prone to MS, and - without attaining significance -- tended to be associated with CHD likelihood, independent of age and MS. Further studies are warranted in this area.
Although mRECIST criteria show a good correlation with prognosis, they demand strict requirements for patient selection and couldn't be useful as a tool for routine clinical practice. Furthermore, merely by means of contrast-enhanced CT or MRI, mRECIST couldn't estimate viable tumor sufficiently.
For pT2N0M0 esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, the seventh edition of the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual does not provide a more distinguishable prediction of prognosis compared with the sixth edition. Tumor grade is an independent prognostic factor in patients with pT2N0M0 esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, whereas tumor location is not. Furthermore, alcohol consumption is an independent prognostic factor that may imply a worse prognosis.
Suboptimal biochemical control was associated with a higher mortality in the Bulgarian cohort. Modern treatment options that induce a strict biochemical control and reduce the necessity of radiotherapy might influence the life expectancy. Other factors, possibly management of comorbidities, could contribute to survival rates.
Studies performed in 30 patients with a history of HFRS revealed renal function impairment, along with hypertension and damage to the liver parenchyma in some patients. The results obtained showed that the HFRS infection in Croatia may have entailed chronic sequels. To confirm this hypothesis, additional studies including a control group of hantavirus negative persons are needed.
A significant proportion of patients who received NAC still have gross metastatic tumors requiring EUAS. Gynecologic oncologists should be familiar with EUAS and be ready to perform any required procedures together with multidisciplinary teams, even in the patients who have received NAC.
Scores from the IQ test used here did not completely explain the socioeconomic gradients in health. However, controlling for IQ did lead to a marked reduction in the magnitude of these gradients. Further exploration of the currently scant information about IQ, socioeconomic position, and health is needed.
JUPS may have small influences on adolescent physical activity behavior. Future longitudinal studies should be conducted to examine the impact of JUPs in conjunction with other physical activity-related policies and environmental changes to determine what impact they have on overall adolescent physical activity and sedentary behavior.
Individuals who develop a full depressive syndrome in response to high-threat events do not have an appreciably lower liability to MD than those developing depression after exposure to low adversity and have much higher liability to depression than observed in their population cohort. These results support the hypothesis that, in general, MD can be diagnosed independently of the psychosocial context in which it arises.
Our results suggest that irrespective of the macro-environment, the same micro-environmental factors are preferred in middle-aged adults concerning the street's appeal for bicycle transport. The controlled environment simulations in the experimental choice task have the potential to inform real life environmental interventions and suggest that micro-environmental changes can have similar results in different macro-environments.
Although some previous studies have shown that glucocorticoid has an influence on serum cystatin C levels, we have not observed such interference in the lupus nephritis patients submitted to corticotherapy.
The HCFA Medicare hospital mortality model should be used with extreme caution to evaluate hospital quality of care for national referral centers because of residual confounding due to severity of illness factors associated with geographic referral that are inadequately captured in the extant prediction model.
Use of RTSA for failed shoulder arthroplasty and deficient humeral bone stock provides a significant clinical benefit without the need for allograft augmentation. Monoblock humeral component use may diminish risk for prosthetic fracture.
Participation in outpatient surgery clinics did not result in improved performance on written examinations in this surgery clerkship. To achieve the most benefit from the outpatient clinic, objectives of the experience need to be determined and appropriate tools used to measure their successful achievement.
Adolescents with pituitary adenoma who do not receive postoperative radiation should be followed up closely and undergo imaging at more frequent intervals than do adult patients.
Significant diagnostic delay currently occurs for patients with occupational asthma in the UK.
Our study suggests that there are subtle abnormalities in both humoral and cellular arms of the immune response in children with DS as compared to the control subjects.
The TUVP is a remake of TURP, with higher energy offering better results.
No written local guidelines on hand scrubbing exist in the hospital and staff were unaware of WHO guidelines. In this study, mean scrub times were less than WHO guidelines with significant variation in practice across grades of staff. Clear written guidelines are needed.
The finding that women with common symptoms are at risk of future sickness absence is of particular importance in a primary health care setting. The finding that women in active job positions had a higher risk of sickness absence might be an effect of modern working conditions for women.
Across diverse critical care topics, propensity score studies published in high-impact journals produced results that were generally consistent with the findings of randomized clinical trials. However, caution is needed when interpreting propensity score studies because occasionally their results contradict those of randomized clinical trials and there is no reliable way to predict disagreements.
Our results are comparable to published data, and we conclude that toenail ablation surgery can be just as successfully performed by junior surgeons after relatively little training in the procedure.
The bevel-up technique performed superior to bevel-down technique in this study. The bevel-down technique might be useful in small infants.
Fluoroscopy time during sacroiliac joint injection is not increased in patients who are overweight or obese, regardless of whether a first-time sacroiliac joint injection was performed, bilateral injections were performed, a trainee was involved, or a new trainee was involved.
After 5-fluorouracil-based CRT, a positive CRM predicted for a high risk of subsequent local recurrence and a 3-year disease-free survival rate of only 9%. For this reason, the CRM should be considered a major prognostic factor and should be validated in future trials as an early alternative clinical endpoint.
The providing of information 24 to 72 hours in advance of an invasive procedure does not have a beneficial effect over just providing the same information at the time of the study.
This study showed that screen-detected cancers do not differ in their location from unscreened cancers and suggests that faecal occult blood testscreening detects cancer irrespective of location within the colon.
The AARRs for the U5MR of -1.05-3.05% were below the 4.4% required to achieve MDG4.
Changing from open to laparoscopic dissection for colorectal cancer is safe even during the initial learning curve. There are clear potential short-term benefits for patients and the technique can be introduced without penalties in terms of reduced surgical throughput.
The use of "Apps" in medical healthcare, especially for visually impaired persons, has a great potential to achieve a relief in the clinical provision for visually impaired persons with increasing distribution of smartphones and new technical developments.
The quality of dietary habits of the majority of the adult Polish population falls far short of the recommendations relevant for CVD prevention.
Among a community sample of predominantly African-American adolescents, obesity, not overweight, was associated with poor psychosocial health. Findings suggest that overweight may be perceived as normative, and that weight-related programs consider adolescents' psychosocial functioning.
This study demonstrates that a panel of morphologic factors can reliably distinguish between low and high malignant potential SIST. Although patients with low malignant potential SIST have an excellent prognosis after surgical resection, the role of adjuvant treatment for high malignant potential SIST remains to be defined.
No adverse clinical outcomes resulted from subacute treatment of stable buckle fractures. Cost and time savings may be realized with subacute management of buckle fractures without affecting clinical outcome.
The study findings indicate that DSM-IV substance abuse and dependence criteria may be more optimally structured as a unidimensional construct rather than as bidimensional constructs for adolescents.
In conclusion, regardless of a genetic background, the size of a primary pheochromocytoma and age of its first presentation are two independent risk factors associated with the development of metastatic disease.
SMM gain is linked to an increased relative strength when resistance training is prescribed. Although FM, relative body fat (%BF), BMI and body weight (BW) are used to monitor nutritional progress. Based on our results, we suggest to monitor SMM and relative strength ratios for a better estimation of body composition profile and muscle function recovery. Implications for Rehabilitation Anorexia Nervosa Restricting Type (AN-R) AN-R is a psychiatric disorder that has a major impact on muscle mass content and function. However, little or no attention has been paid to muscle recovery. High intensity resistance training is safe for AN-R after hospitalization and enhances the force generating capacity as well as muscle mass gains. Skeletal muscle mass content and muscular function improvements are partially maintained for a short period of time when the exercise program ceases.
Although EuroSCORE II is the newest risk model for cardiac surgery, it is not accurate when it is applied for thoracic aortic surgery. A new risk evaluating system specially designed for aortic surgery should be developed in the future.
The Nuss Procedure is quick, minimally invasive, and a technically easy method to learn; however, our data indicate there is a significant learning curve. Although previous reports suggest that few complications occur, we believe further assessment of patient selection regarding age, presence of connective tissue disorder, and severe chest wall asymmetry are still needed. Long-term follow-up also will be required to assure both health professionals and the public that this is the procedure of choice for patients with pectus excavatum.
The high frequency of iodine deficiency found in our participants suggests that dietary sources of iodine in this country may no longer be sufficient. Further population studies are required.
This study showed that layman parents are able to use the SG-AR technically successfully. In symptomatic children, parentally obtained SG-AR level 1 examination is not adequate to exclude MEE. However, parentally obtained SG-AR levels 4-5 do indicate the presence of MEE. At the same time, in asymptomatic children, parentally obtained SG-AR level 1 examination seems to indicate a healthy middle ear. From the perspective of primary care, the implementation of parental SG-AR examinations in the diagnostic chain of otitis media would be intriguing. This study showed that the possibilities lie in the follow up of the resolution of MEE after an episode of OM in asymptomatic children. However, it seems that currently, the SG-AR technique is an obstacle for wider clinical implementation.
This study shows that capitonnage is a procedure that should not be easily abandoned, despite the current contrary opinions, because of its low complication rate.
The findings from this study suggest that depression confers a small risk for mortality in older people, not explained solely by poor health. The results support the encouragement of effective diagnosis, treatment, and support for individuals with depression as highlighted by the World Health Organization and the UK National Service Framework for older people.
Abnormal P/O-ratio is common in HIV-infected patients on TDF but was not significantly associated with low eGFR, suggesting that abnormal P/O-ratio may be a very early biomarker of decreased renal function in HIV infected patients.
DE Medicare/Medicaid status was independently associated with not receiving diabetes care, especially among those in urban areas.
The high-level Tasks 2 and 5 were the most useful in differentiating different levels of skill task competency among urology residents and appear to be most useful in assessing the degree of improvement among residents during training. These tasks have subsequently been worked into our institution's testing curriculum.
These results suggest that ROTEM data do not substantially improve a model's ability to predict chest tube drainage, beyond frequently used clinical and laboratory parameters. Although several ROTEM parameters were individually associated with CTO, they did not significantly improve goodness of fit when added to statistical models comprising only clinical and routine laboratory parameters. ROTEM does not seem to improve prediction of chest tube drainage after cardiac surgery involving CPB, although its use in guiding transfusion during cardiac surgery remains to be determined.
During cardiac arrests in children ≥ 8 yrs, TTI decreased after biphasic shocks, but the limited magnitude and duration of TTI changes suggest that stacked-shocks would not improve defibrillation success.
The sensitivity of fundal height for detecting abnormal intrauterine growth was less than 35% for all subgroups, although specificity was more ideal at>90%. Other modalities should be considered to screen for growth abnormalities.
GPs working in practices with either high or low prescribing costs had different views on a number of statements concerning substitution with comparable but cheaper drugs. When encouraging GPs to control their prescribing costs, a different approach may be required for doctors in some high-cost practices.
According to the previous studies, the stomach seems to be a reference to search. Our study shows variability depending on the different operators. If a hierarchy of quality criteria is to be considered, the stomach does not seem to be the first criterion to search.
The topographical patterns and temporal characteristics of MC disease suggest that all manifestations share common mechanisms such as an active migratory process. Our data therefore do not support the concept of an independent MC development of multiple gliomas.
The reciprocating single file, Reciproc, was as effective as the multifile rotary systems for the removal of bacteria and endotoxins from root canals.
Asian American college females experience body dissatisfaction through mechanisms that have not been examined in detail. These factors must be considered when creating targeted health promotion strategies and developing best practices for eating disorder assessment and treatment protocols at university health centers.
The correct development of the paratubal muscles seems to be linked to physiological nasal breathing and is negatively affected by oral breathing.
We found no significant relationship between pediatric injury severity, distribution of injuries, or restraint use and being overweight. Limitations of this study were the small sample size in this database and the large number of unrestrained subjects.
We observed an inverse relationship between volume of intraoperative colloid and early lung allograft function. The association persists, despite detailed sensitivity analyses and adjustment for potential confounding variables. Further studies are required to confirm these findings and explore potential mechanisms through which these associations may act.
Morbidity of transrectal prostatic biopsy is low and increasing the number of cores correlates with a minor and statistically not significant increase in the rate of side effects. Transrectal sextant prostatic biopsy and extensive biopsy protocols are generally well tolerated and widely accepted from patients.
Mesh implantation/perimesh fibrosis does not adversely affect ipsilateral testicular flow. Mesh application is still a safe procedure in male patients in whom testicular function is important.
The model predicted resource use well for patients who completed treatment per protocol. Actual economic data can be collected for critical cost items. Some institutions experienced difficulty collecting retrospective data, and prospective collection of data is likely to allow wider participation in future Radiation Therapy Oncology Group economic studies.
A distal resection margin of<1 cm for patients undergoing restorative radical resection for low-lying rectal cancer does not adversely influence oncologic outcomes when other factors are carefully considered and a multimodality approach is used. This factor, when carefully considered, will help avoid a permanent stoma in some circumstances.
There are significant differences in the failure pattern of tongue and buccal carcinomas. Prognostic models for these malignancies should allow stratification of patients for a risk-adapted approach to treatment.
Our ability to establish a cause of recurrent abortion has improved slightly over the past 15 years. The gain is not yet reflected in successful pregnancy rates. Multicenter trials are indicated.
In fibrinous thrombus of abdominal aortic aneurysm, the direction of pressure measurement influenced the pressure readout.
This trial shows that intermittent ischaemic arrest, even without systemic cooling or venting of the left ventricle, provides a similar level of myocardial protection to cardioplegia in patients with moderate left ventricular function and short ischaemic times.
Based on the study results, ARR and low renin activity may predict the response to spironolactone in never-treated hypertensive patients but not in patients taking antihypertensive drugs, possibly because of the effect of these agents on ARR. In such patients a trial of spironolactone is required to assess the BP response.
CD4 T cell analysis and LyTR to Pokeweed mitogen, but not to PHA, both correlate with disease states in patients with HIV infection.
Iv iron administration in cancer patients undergoing active oncologic treatment is an effective and safe measure for correction of anemia, and prevention of worsening of anemia. Amelioration of anemia and increase in Hgb levels with iv iron administration in patients with disseminated cancer is associated with increased tumor response to oncologic treatment and overall survival. Response to iv iron may be both a prognostic and a predictive factor for response to cancer treatment and survival.
These findings are discussed in terms of the role that humor may play in interpersonal perception and relationships.
Our study did not prove usefulness of any predictive marker. Serum ferritin and alkaline phosphatase were found to have correlation but their values are affected in many conditions and need to be elucidated with caution. Larger studies are needed for predicting preterm labour in asymptomatic women.
These results highlight a poor adherence of general practitioners to current recommendations of clinical practice guidelines in cystitis with a low utilization of first-choice antibiotics.
The lesion morphology was worse in group A. Simpler lesions in group B motivated performing more than one vessel angioplasty. There was no difference in the limb salvage rate in the medium term among both groups. Additional vessels angioplasty in less diseased arteries was not associated with substantial additional morbidity.
These results provide an evidence base for development of health policy and law reform. What is known about the topic? The impact of patents on the delivery of genetic testing services remains unclear in Australia. What does this paper add? The survey reported in this paper suggests that, aside from well-known enforcement actions relating to the breast cancer associated patents, there is little evidence that providers of genetic testing services are being exposed to aggressive patent-enforcement practices. What are the implications for practitioners? Although patent-enforcement actions may increase in the future, a range of strategies are available to providers of testing services to protect them against adverse consequences of such actions. There are ongoing law reform activities aimed at improving these strategies.
The Stryker image-guided system can provide a precision level that is equivalent in both children and adults. This study also demonstrated an absent/low complication rate respectively for children and adults post endoscopic surgery.
In this study, BNE for hyperparathyroidism was associated with excision of more parathyroid glands and slightly longer operative times. However, BNE had equal rates of same-day discharges and safety profile.
Compared with controls, study patients did not deliver significantly larger infants. However, raising the GCT threshold would have missed 8 subjects (11.9%) with GDM. Raising the GCT threshold to 150 mg/dL in Asian gravidas may unacceptably lower the sensitivity of the screening test.
This study presents results of an unprecedented long-term serosurveillance program in marine mammals. Our results suggest that leptospirosis is endemic in California sea lions, but also causes periodic epidemics of acute disease. The findings call into question the classical dichotomy between maintenance hosts of leptospirosis, which experience chronic but largely asymptomatic infections, and accidental hosts, which suffer acute illness or death as a result of disease spillover from reservoir species.
Although patients aged 75 and older had more medical conditions and were at higher risk for drug-related problems than younger patients, the duration of physician visits was similar across the age groups. These findings suggest that elderly patients may require a multidisciplinary approach to optimize patient care in the ambulatory setting.
Accidental asphyxia is a rare but possible outcome if mothers fall asleep in bed with their infants while breast feeding. Nursing mothers should be made aware of the potential dangers of fatigue and sedation in such circumstances. Breast feeding out of bed, or in the company of a second person who can ensure the safety of the infant if breast feeding is occurring in bed may prevent these unfortunate fatalities.
Despite a formal patient safety curriculum concerning medication errors, 89% of medical students did not identify an overdose of a commonly used over the counter medication during a standardized patient simulation. Further educational interventions are needed for students to detect medication errors. Additionally, 31% of students did not ask about the administration of over the counter medications suggesting that students may not view such medications as equally important to prescription medications. Simulation may serve as a useful tool to assess students' competency in identifying medication administration errors.
These insufficiency fractures could possibly have developed from the over suppression of bone turnover from prolonged alendronate therapy, in keeping with recently published evidence. This study further highlights the need for heightened awareness of alendronate's potential adverse effects.
Providing a structured and bespoke in-service education programme over an academic year may help to improve the rating of clinical competencies and give participants the perception that their clinical practice has changed because of the programme.
In this example, searching Medline and additional specialised databases along with checking reference lists and contacting experts was the most effective means of ensuring that all relevant papers were included in the review. Searching Medline alone for systematic reviews of exercise or other unconventional therapies is likely to be inadequate.
Residents perceive that participation in an IMIG confers significant benefit, providing additional justification for conducting these interest groups.
The optimal dose of angiotensin receptor blocker is not known, and no data are available about losartan pharmacogenetic profile in Marfan syndrome; we have proposed a strategy to tackle this issue based on evaluating the major genetic polymorphisms involved in the losartan conversion into active carboxylic acid metabolite. Further studies are needed to support the use of genetic polymorphisms as predictors of the right dose of losartan.
The WHO recommendation for the routine insertion of a CVC, and the maintenance of a CVP of 0-5 cmH2O in adults with severe malaria, should be reconsidered.
Our results suggest an association between ADHD and illicit SUD in Brazilian adolescents that is not mediated by CD. These findings are potentially important from a prevention perspective because treatments are available for ADHD.
DhL and Hln induce programmed cell death in T. cruzi replicative epimastigote and infective trypomastigote forms, which is a different mechanism of action than the conventional drugs to kill the parasite. Therefore DhL and Hln may offer an interesting option for the treatment of Chagas disease, alone or in combination with conventional drugs.
These findings suggest that living arrangements of Chinese oldest old are partially getting westernized, and a majority of them adapt it well. Government programs need to be developed to assist the Chinese oldest old (especially widowed) to live independently.
Public and private sector healthcare providers and facility managers perceive value in the voucher program as a healthcare financing model. They recognize that it has the potential to significantly increase demand for reproductive health services, improve quality of care and reduce inequities in the use of reproductive health services. To improve program functioning going forward, there is need to ensure the benefit package and criteria for beneficiary identification are well understood and that the public facilities are permitted greater autonomy to utilize revenue generated from the voucher program.
A six-session caregiver psychoeducational intervention on bipolar disorder did not bring benefits to caregiver's health. A longer longitudinal follow-up study would be crucial to see whether there were differences in degree of burden, perceived self-esteem and quality of life over time in caregivers.
These findings reinforce the view that the 'childhood' testis is not quiescent. This may explain the damaging effects of some cancer therapies on subsequent fertility of boys and raises the issue of protective intervention. The present studies suggest that GnRH antagonist-based intervention might be only partially successful. Identification of the factors regulating spermatogonial development in the infant marmoset may aid in the design of such strategies.
The AUC of ROC curves within various age subgroups tends to be stable; therefore, we are led to believe that a PSA or PSAV cutoff for safely commending discontinuation of PCa screening is not apparent from these data.
Caries risk assessment could predict the incidence of future caries in hospital-based dentistry. Past caries experience and inadequate oral hygiene maintenance were largely related to caries development in special needs patients.
Iohexol induces neutrophil degranulation, which is greatly enhanced when combined with vascular stent-graft material. Thus, iohexol-induced neutrophil activation may contribute to an inflammatory response following stent-graft implantation. We speculate that neutrophil activation during other procedures combining catheters and iohexol (e.g., angiography) may induce inflammation, which might have detrimental effects.
The conduct of mass treatment in the 50 villages resulted in far lower participation than expected. This raises concern for the ongoing mass-treatment initiatives now taking place in developing countries.
Rural parturient women who have to travel for care are 1.3 times more likely to undergo induction of labour than women who do not have to travel. Further research is required to determine why this is the case. If it is a strategy to mitigate stress incurred due to separation from home and community, either a clinical protocol to support geographic inductions or an alternative strategy to mitigate stress is needed.
Our observations suggest curettage with adjuvants is a reasonable option for giant cell tumor of bone with pathologic fractures. Resection should be considered with soft tissue extension, fracture through a local recurrence, or when structural integrity cannot be regained after reconstruction.
The side of the MCA ischemic stroke did not influence the patients mortality.
A CT scoring system can successfully predict the need for surgery 75% of the time. Likewise, specific criteria, when present in combination, can predict the need for operative intervention in 79% of cases with SBO.
Our data suggest that the prevalence of vitamin D insufficiency and deficiency is common in patients presenting with fractures in southeastern Australia and is not confined to elderly patients. All patients with fractures should be assessed for vitamin D levels and treated in accordance with vitamin D deficiency guidelines.
The results show that, in general, when all types of exercise are analyzed, small but significant reductions in pain and disability are observed compared with minimal care or no treatment. Despite many possible sources of heterogeneity in exercise trials, only dosage was found to be significantly associated with effect sizes.
We conclude that measurement of contralateral renal length is not helpful in the evaluation of newborns with unilateral hydronephrosis.
We observed disparities in the likelihood of reconstruction that were at least partially explained by differences in the likelihood that reconstruction was discussed. But there were also differences in the likelihood of reconstruction based on age, race, and radiation once discussions occurred. Efforts to increase and improve discussions about reconstruction may decrease disparities for this procedure.
This case provides compelling evidence for the possible role of the posterior cerebellum in the clinical presentation of catatonia. This is probably related to its role in controlling the nonmotor cerebral functions through corticocerebellar connections. Further studies of catatonic syndromes are needed to establish this association.
If the conditions for conservative treatment of upper cervical spine injuries with halo fixation are right, the clinical and radiological results are good and almost similar in patients regardless of their age, although there is a tendency for more complications in older people.
Routine follow-up is indispensible. Site and stage of the index tumor played a part in the length of routine follow-up, in contrast to the differentiation grade or type of initial treatment. Yearly chest roentgenograms were valuable only for laryngeal index tumors. Patients considered routine follow-up important; however, negative findings at physical examination of complaints did not reassure all patients.
Our data suggest that losartan offers similar short-term renoprotective and blood pressure lowering effects in albuminuric hypertensive type 1 diabetic patients with the ACE II and DD genotypes. However, the long-term renoprotective effects remain to be evaluated.
Our findings and clinical data indicate that long-term air pollution exposure may contribute to the development of breast cancer by playing the role of a xenoestrogen, and also provides new insight into the association between air pollution and the morbidity and mortality of breast cancer patients. Furthermore, it is urgently necessary to study the association between air pollution and breast cancer to improve the living quality and health of females, and applicable public health strategies may need to be established or modified as soon as possible.
Our results support our hypothesis that sex steroids may induce sex-specific and/or opposite effects in the lacrimal and meibomian glands. Whether these actions contribute to the prevalence of dry eye remains to be determined.
For stage I lung tumours, there is a significant relationship between growth rates, as measured by serial CT examinations, and the initial pre-treatment metabolic activities, as measured by FDG uptake. This suggests that in patients in whom it is difficult to decide on the aggressiveness on treatment, FDG-PET may be used as additional prognostic tool for determining management.
The very elderly electing dialysis were found to have good survival. Further patient characterisation is required to improve decision-making between dialysis and MCM for elderly patients with progressive chronic kidney disease.
The majority of people who quit smoking recently consider themselves as non-smokers. Younger people and those who have been abstinent for longer are more likely to take on a non-smoker identity. Ex-smokers who make this mental transition following a quit attempt appear more likely to remain abstinent in the medium term than those who still think of themselves as smokers.
Cementing the cage to the pelvis can offer an advantage for treating severe acetabular defects. Trabecular metal augmentation appears to provide better initial mechanical stability than a structural allograft, but successful allograft reconstruction may restore bone stock.
In T1 tumors, axillary lymph node dissection will overtreat almost 75% of cases; therefore a sentinel lymph node biopsy is justified in these tumors. Sentinel lymph node biopsy has been shown to reduce the complications of formal axillary dissection, such as shoulder stiffness, pain, and lymphedema. In patients with T2 tumors, where almost 45% have lymph node involvement, sentinel node biopsy may not be cost effective.
The new ADA criterion, based on fasting glucose alone, does not take account of sex differences in metabolic response to fasting or possible artifactual effects on fasting glucose. With the ADA criterion, alcohol intake was a significant risk factor for diabetes in our study population; this was not the case with the WHO criterion.
The fluctuations in tumor volume using different quantitative PET thresholding approaches did not depend on the thresholding method used. They originated from the nature of functional imaging in general and PET imaging in particular. Functional imaging will eventually be used for biologically tailored target radiotherapy volume definition not as a replacement of CT- or magnetic resonance imaging-based anatomic gross tumor volumes but with the methods complementing each other in a complex mosaic of distinct biologic target volumes.
We conclude that capitonnage provides no advantage in operations for pulmonary hydatid cysts.
Surgery is a key component of locoregional treatment for breast cancers that achieved complete clinical response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
At the same level of inflammation, ACPA-negative patients have less joint damage and lower probability for damage in newly affected joints than ACPA-positive patients. Low disease activity might be a sufficiently strict treatment target for ACPA-negative patients to prevent progression of joint damage.
Intensified therapy was effective, but target attainment was still low at 40.3% or 13.9% with regard to the new 2011 guidelines issued by the European Atherosclerosis Society (EAS) and the ESC on dyslipidemias. Enhanced screening of LDL-C levels and the use of statins at highest tolerated dose and concomitant combination therapy is recommended in order to achieve LDL-C targets outlined by current guidelines. Limitations include the design as a non-interventional study. However, this study reflects real life conditions.
This study proposed a modified Weisskoff model that was able to explain both T1 and T2 dominant effects of the contrast agent extravasation in DSC-MRI. Further development is needed to make the K2 parameter a quantitative indicator of the vessel permeability.
The findings lend support to previous research with German-speaking samples but are in marked contrast to Anglo-Saxon studies, which generally support the role of physical activity as a moderator of the health-illness relationship. In this investigation, developmental features and methodological limitations may have accounted for the insignificant results.
Long-term alcohol consumption did not cause chronic pancreatitis but impaired exocrine pancreatic function. The mechanism behind it could be associated with decreased output of intestinal CCK and lower concentration of pancreatic CCK. Furthermore, the nonoxidative pathway of ethanol metabolism was probably involved in it.
Despite greater comorbidity and complication rates in geriatric patients, the patient-rated outcome was as good in the elderly as it was in younger age groups up to 2 years after surgery. These data indicate that geriatric age needs careful consideration of associated risks but is not per se a contraindication for fusion for lumbar degenerative disease.
Implications of this low-cost device include limitless training possibilities worldwide and across disciplines. The simplicity and portability of this device increases potential for use in rapid training of recognition of clinical signs associated with chemical/biological warfare agents, mass casualty incidents and field military applications. This is the first device to simulate clinically relevant sounds in a realistic manner on standardized patients and mannequins. The benefits of such simulation in medical education ultimately serve to increase trainee confidence and consequently, improve patient care and safety.
The authors obtained false-negative results with both catheter aspiration and the air test. Fractionating the local anesthetic dose is important when using multiorifice epidural catheters.
It is beneficial for the health care provider to be aware of the potential acidity of popular bottled drinking waters and educate patients accordingly.
Unstable cervical spine injuries secondary to explosion are extremely rare. The majority of unstable cervical spine fractures were secondary to penetrating injuries, with irreversible neurologic deficits on admission. The application of SRCC did not seem to be of any benefit in these patients and might pose a risk of obscuring other neck injuries. We recommend that SRCC will not be used in the prehospital management of victims of explosions.
Additional policy efforts to help CHOs' development are needed. Recent government investments in public health and primary care alone are not sufficient and could not be sustainable. It will not until long-term self-sustaining mechanisms to relieve an omnipotent government are established, including competent community doctors (GP) system, supportive social insurance reimbursement, appropriate financial incentives to providers, better transparency and accountability, as well as a more regulated referral system, a legitimate, sustainable and quality community health system could be attained.
Blood cultures rarely altered therapy for patients presenting to the ED with pneumonia. More discriminatory blood culture use may potentially reduce resource utilization.
This study analyses the non-operative modalities available and suggests that there is scope for more effective use of non-operative treatment before referral for carpal tunnel decompression.
Haplotype distribution of the T-cell epitopes of Pfcsp in Freetown appeared to vary with age in the study population, and the polymorphism patterns were similar to that observed in neighbouring Gambia, but differed significantly at the sequence level from that observed in Asia. The findings further emphasize the role of local factors in generating polymorphisms in the T-cell epitopes of the P. falciparum circumsporozoite protein.
A subacromial hyaluronate injection to treat impingement syndrome produces similar pain and functional improvement to corticosteroid at a short-term follow-up.
Temporary employment may have adverse effects on self-rated health and psychological health after adjustment for previous health status and sociodemographic variables. Our findings indicate that low cash margin and job insecurity may partially mediate the association between temporary employment and health status.
With regard to DSWH, patients undergoing operative treatment of facial fractures can safely be administered doses of 30 mg or less of perioperative glucocorticosteroids equivalent to dexamethasone.
Several femoral and tibial bone morphological parameters were identified as potential risk factors for sustaining an ACL injury. These parameters are clinically relevant to identify individuals with higher risk of ACL injury, decide between conservative or surgical treatment and identify individuals who may benefit from preventive neuromuscular programs.
Results of the current study suggest that 24 h IV hydration can reduce postoperative pain in late postoperative period following adenotonsillectomy in children but does not offer much advantage over without IV hydration therapy based on a number of other parameters. Furthermore, it seems to be cost effective, safe and easy and even these are encouraging for further studies in the future.
We hypothesize that hyponatremia without significant loss of sodium can be used as an indicator to monitor the patients' adrenal function regardless of the serum/urine cortisol level. Furthermore, we propose a novel approach toward hyponatremia treatment in critically ill patients would be hydrocortisone or prednisone therapy depending on the circumstances.
In patients that on the basis of ultrasound examination can benefit from CE, information on intracranial arteries is necessary. Moreover, complete occlusion cannot be detected with certainty only by ultrasound examination.
Patients with mass-forming plus periductal-infiltrating ICCs have a poor prognosis; however, the macroscopic types may not be a statistically significant independent prognostic factor.
Colorectal polyp detection using CT colonography equipped with CAD and virtual dissection as a first reviewer is feasible. Detection rates are similar to colonoscopy. Interobserver variability is low and interpretation times are short. False-positive detections per patient are few in number.
This study suggests that there is a high level of chronic respiratory symptoms and diseases among elderly people in communities located near to mine dumps in South Africa.
A high referral rate does not necessarily imply a high level of inappropriate referral.
Bariatric surgery is associated with significant reductions in food cravings and consumption of craved foods, with the exception of high-fat foods. Despite these decreases, patients' cravings do not fully reduce to "normative" levels and are not associated with postoperative weight loss.
This profile led us to reconsider anew the definition of addiction, the approach to addiction in this age group, and the way to prescribe treatment by BZD/equivalents in this population.
In this study, neither screen was sufficiently predictive of SCAN ICD-10 diagnosis to recommend their use in two-phase surveys. Despite its theoretical advantages, the GDS-30 performed no better than the GHQ-12, and was biased in similar ways.
Excellent but equivalent overall refractive results were found between all biometry methods used in this multifocal IOL study. For eyes with ALs under 22 mm Hoffer Q and Holliday I performed best. Current techniques mean that patients are still likely to need top up glasses for certain situations.
Shifting costs from insurer to physicians through managed care appears to reduce diagnostic testing for URIs and acute bronchitis, but does not decrease excessive use of antibiotics and may actually increase antibiotic use for URIs.
Colorectal cancer screening is performed less often in older patients attending a hospital for health maintenance evaluation. Chronological age alone should not determine whether physicians screen for colorectal cancer.
Larger samples of patients, assessed at presentation and followed-up, are necessary to clearly examine clinical presentation and outcome as a function of social and neural development to better understand if the differentiation between VEOP and EOP is justified. This will aid the development of predictive diagnostic tools, more accurate prognosis prediction, and age-tailored therapeutic interventions.
Despite of new implant designs significant problems persist. Adhesions of extensor tendons leading to limited range of finger motion are still the most frequent complications after ORPF of proximal phalangeal fractures, even in absence of significant soft-tissue damage.
This study has shown for the first time that a protective association exists between calcium channel blockers and PCDD. The validity of this association is supported by the consistent finding in both control groups and the plausible biological mechanisms. Further studies are required to confirm this association but calcium channel blockers may represent a potential preventive therapy in PCDD.
It is concluded that increased HSP70 immunoexpression could be a marker for the presence of epithelial dysplasia or epithelial malignant transformation.
The outcome of this case supports the notion that clinicians could consider introducing clozapine in treatment-refractory patients who have a history of quetiapine XR-induced neutropenia, with close blood monitoring. Lithium co-administration may play a role in maintaining a normal neutrophil count.
YMSM do not constitute a group at increased risk of HIV/STI infection compared with respondents>25 years old. However, there are some variables could contribute to vulnerability in this group.
At the cortical level, 5-HT(2A) receptor BI does not significantly differ in first-episode melancholic depressed patients compared to healthy controls. This observation might imply a limited short-term impact on the serotonergic system in first episode depression. Our results also suggest that when encountered with treatment-resistance, the 5-HT(2A) receptors in the DPFC-ACC axis are significantly down-regulated. However, whether this assumed underlying pathophysiological mechanism is due solely to abnormalities in the serotonergic system remains to be answered. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Anxiety and Depression'.
Stage-matched interventions may be useful to encourage people to reduce their alcohol intake. Different factors seem to be important for people in different motivational stages. Longitudinal studies are needed to determine whether these factors also predict stage transition. The intervention could be optimized by tailoring the feedback messages more precisely to the needs of people in different motivational stages, for example by applying the different processes of change.
Elderly patients are at increased risk of morbidity in pancreatocoduodenectomy, in particular POPF. However, morbidity and mortality rates are acceptable. It is therefore justified to offer PD to elderly patients who do not have significant cardiopulmonary comorbidities.
PVOD is an underdiagnosed and commonly misdiagnosed cause of pulmonary hypertension, which may present with a failure to respond to medical therapy. Further studies on PVOD may help confirm whether a change in its classification as a type of PAH is necessary.
There appears to be evidence suggesting that the views of individuals who participate in citizens' juries change as a result of the experience, and those 'informed' views are sustained.
NF-kappaB expression and apoptosis increased from adenoma to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. This degenerative transition, recognized as key in carcinogenesis, appear to have been influenced by a diet promoting a pro-inflammatory milieu that can trigger NF-kappaB.
There were noticeable differences in how family physicians deal with SARS between the two cities. As SARS emerged as a global disease, better understanding of practice differences among physicians from different countries would facilitate globalization of public health.
Counselling on all methods including LTPM reduced unmet needs in contraception in HIV positive and HIV-negative mothers and could improve contraceptive uptake and reduce unintended pregnancies. Health workers do not always remember to include LTPM when they counsel clients, which could result in a low uptake of these methods. Further experimental studies should be conducted to validate these results.
It appears to be normal to find synovial fluid, particularly in the MTPJs of the great toes, of athletes at rest and after running. There does not appear to be an association between moderate distance running and an increase in the volume of synovial fluid.
The current haematocrit limit used in blood tests might lead to a high number of false positive tests.
This study is the first to highlight the relationships between distinct drinking motives and sexual risk behavior. The results indicate that specific motives may increase risk of sexual hookups both indirectly via alcohol use, as well as directly, at least among those that drink to cope with negative mood.
Lt-EEG was clearly superior to standard EEG for detecting epileptiform activity in elderly when suspecting non convulsive seizures.
Coagulation abnormalities are rare in pregnant patients with ICP, even when a strict criterion is utilized (INR<1.2). The use of neuraxial anesthesia and/or analgesia may not necessarily be delayed in parturients with isolated ICP.
ICD-9-CM codes were sensitive for the presence of any severe TBI, but further classification of specific types of TBI was limited by variable sensitivity/specificity. Use of these codes should be supplemented by other methodology.
These findings revealed that cognitive tasks involving the visuo-spatial sketchpad interfered with gait more severely in older versus young adults. Thus, dual-task training, in which a cognitive task involving the visuo-spatial sketchpad (e.g. the Brooks' Spatial Memory task) is concurrently performed with walking, could be beneficial to mitigate impairments in gait among older adults.
After years of rapid growth, CT use in the Medicare population declined by 1.7% in 2010. The proportional decline was even greater among inpatients, hospital outpatient departments, and offices. The only place of service for which growth continued was emergency departments. Without the effect of emergency departments, the decline in 2010 would have been 4.7%. This downturn should help alleviate previous concerns about overly rapid CT growth.
In elderly men, the concentrations of bioavailable and free 17beta-E2, calculated using equations including either the measured albumin concentration or the constant albumin concentration of 43 g/l, can be used, at least in clinical studies, instead of the bio-17beta-E2 concentrations measured after ammonium sulfate precipitation.
The incidence of acute adverse reactions may be reduced in younger patients by using iopamidol, iohexol and ioversol.
Bifocals seemed to slow myopia progression in these children with near-point esophoria, although a longer-term study with more subjects is needed to confirm this finding. Myopia progressed more rapidly during the school year than during summer vacation.
These results show that the PRISA is suitable as a measure of paediatric A&E department performance in the United Kingdom and it is highly promising as a future measure of quality.
Psychotic symptoms, not covered by current diagnostic criteria, are common and may lead to clinical misdiagnosis in FTD.
Background music can be useful as a means of decreasing preoperative anxiety.
Besides age, weight-related factors seem important in the pathogenesis of Modic changes, whereas whole-body vibration was the only significant determinant of severe disc degeneration.
In the normal prostate, NE cell density probably remains constant in acini/ducts from fetuses to young adulthood. The presence of neuroendocrine cells in well-developed glandular structures at such an early fetal age and their absence in the less differentiated budding tips possibly indicates that differentiation of NE cells is associated with glandular maturation. NE cells occur preferentially in the acinous/ductal region, implying a paracrine function during secretory differentiation of exocrine epithelial cells.
The presence of muscle fibers is not an occasional finding in the histological specimens, even if the presence of smooth muscle does not seems to influence the outcome of stapled hemorrhoidopexy. The idea of a simple mucosal resection needs to be revised.
At the time of chronic hyperglycemia (not acute hyperglycemia), the adverse effect caused by high plasma glucose level was minimum. The FDG uptake of the tumor maintained a sufficiently high level for visual clinical diagnosis in most cases, except in the cases of low FDG-avid tumors or small lesions (15 mm in size).
PCC in conjunction with FFP rapidly corrects INR in a matched cohort of trauma patients not on warfarin therapy compared with FFP therapy alone. The use of PCC as an adjunct to FFP therapy is associated with reduction of blood product requirement and also lowers overall cost.
The majority of schools are not meeting the DPA policy. However, as the frequency and intensity of DPA increases, so do positive health outcomes. This paper provides supporting evidence that when this policy is implemented, the intended health benefits are achievable.
FMD was 4% lower in adolescents with the highest compared with the lowest rate of weight gain in the first 2 weeks after birth, a substantial negative effect similar to that for insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus or smoking in adults. Our findings are consistent with the adverse effects of accelerated neonatal growth on long-term cardiovascular health and suggest that postnatal growth patterns could explain the previously reported association between birthweight and later CVD.
The presence of HPV, HIV infection, and cervical schistosomiasis in our patient is likely more than coexistence of multiple agents in the same milieu as cervical schistosomiasis increase susceptibility for other STDs including HIV and HPV. Therefore, in patients with schistosomiasis, immediate treatment for schistosomiasis and additional testing for HIV and HPV is warranted.
Simple measures such as proper subgroup selection among blood donors and correct use of non-expired tests may decrease the risk of iatrogenic HIV transmission. Stricter indications for blood transfusions will not substantially reduce the number of transfusions.
HTGW is a phenotype of cardiometabolic risk prevalent in the adult population in our environment. HTGW may be an alternative to MS to detect the population at risk for T2DM and CVD, especially in young individuals who do not fulfill the criteria for MS.
Engagement is an important mechanism by which empowerment affects nurses feelings of effectiveness but less important to new graduates' feelings of work effectiveness than empowerment. Implications for nursing management Managers must be aware of the role of empowerment in promoting work engagement and effectiveness and differential effects on new graduates and more seasoned nurses.
This study suggests that exposure to gender discrimination and sexual harassment during undergraduate education may influence some medical students' choice of specialty and, to a lesser degree, ranking of residency programs.
Both methods are reproducible and transferrable among observers. ROI-based volumetry appears to perform better with greater intra- and interobserver agreement for complex-shaped DIPG.
We observed a yearly trend of decrease in efficacy.
Our data supports the association between increased DVPI and CHD or AT. The sensitivity of this marker is not strong enough to be used a screening test.
CSE using low-dose heavy bupivacaine without opioid required less drug consumption produced faster onset of pain control and sensory block than low-dose epidural analgesia. There were no other significant inter-group differences.
We conclude that rapamycin has dual opposing effects on subjacent renal lesion, with proteinuria and podocyte damage aggravation in the glomerular model and a nephro-protective effect in the chronic inflammatory tubulointerstitial model. Rapamycin produces slight alterations in podocyte structure when acting on healthy podocytes, but it clearly worsens those podocytes damaged by other concomitant injury.
In addition to its immunomodulatory and antiproliferative activity, opioid growth factor receptor seems to have a prognostic significance in basal cell carcinoma patients. Our data add to the growing list of basal cell carcinoma-associated tumor antigens.
Our study showed that evidence-practice gaps continue to exist, and it appears that physician behavior is mainly driven by the absolute level of hemoglobin. Educational interventions focused on these factors are required to limit the widespread and often unnecessary use of this scarce and potentially harmful resource.
High annual hospital volume was consistently associated with lower stroke mortality. Our study encourages further research to determine whether this is due to differences in case mix, more organized care in high-volume facilities, or differences in the performance or in the processes of care among facilities.
Despite substantial increase in immunisation uptake, inequalities between deprived and affluent areas persisted or became wider. Any reduction in inequality occurred only after uptake in affluent areas approached 95%. Interventions that improve overall uptake of preventive measures are unlikely to reduce social inequalities in uptake.
Compared with the TLP approach, RLP for large renal pelvic stone resulted in a shorter operative time, a shorter resumption time for normal oral intake, and a shorter hospital stay. As the other clinical outcomes are similar, including the stone-free rate, we recommend the RLP route for LP.
In this study, TOF-MRA and CE-MRA at 3T were equivalent in evaluating the occlusion status of intracranial aneurysms after coiling. Because TOF-MRA does not involve contrast administration, this method is preferred over CE-MRA.
The observations suggest increased bone marrow F-FDG uptake to be caused by red marrow hyperplasia because of anemia in Hodgkin lymphoma. Increased bone marrow F-FDG uptake is unlikely to be caused by inflammatory bone marrow changes.
Although Kerman is a low endemic area, due to the high risk of transmission to the spouse and offspring, screening for HBV study before marriage is recommended.
Children from more advantaged families who use informal childcare are at increased risk of overweight. The UK government's drive to support parents into paid employment should be accompanied by health-related information and support for both informal and formal carers. As the majority of informal carers were grandparents, the recent government announcement to provide grandparents with National Insurance credits for caring for grandchildren provides a potential opportunity for health promotion.
The schools in areas with lower socio-economic status provided an environment less favourable for a healthy diet. From a public health perspective, the results of this analysis could assist policy makers and managers to identify actions to support the creation of favourable school environments.
The authors suggest further work should be undertaken to establish HIV prevalence in TOP and colposcopy services and that HIV testing should become standard practice in the management of CIN 2/3 and cervical cancer.
Occasional squinting in the first 8 weeks of life appears to be normal neonatal behaviour. Frequent squinting trebles the chances of developing a significant esodeviation or refractive error severe enough to require spectacles before 5 years of age but incidence of abnormality still does not exceed 9%.
The incidence of diagnosed HIV infection, gonorrhoea, and syphilis in Denmark is generally low, but fairly high in certain groups of immigrants. Information, early diagnosis and treatment are central elements in the prevention of STIs and should be adapted for new sub-populations.
These 5 American College of Surgeons-mandated major resuscitation criteria vary several-fold in their individual ability to predict emergency operative management and collectively exhibit modest test characteristics for this purpose. Selective use of these criteria or revisions thereof could result in more efficient secondary trauma triage. Our results do not support the existing obligatory use of these criteria to maintain American College of Surgeons trauma center certification.
Exogenous melatonin may be of modest benefit to emergency physicians working night shifts.
Tumor grade is an important prognostic variable of survival in PAC. We propose a novel staging system incorporating grade into current AJCC staging for pancreas cancer. The improved prognostication is more reflective of tumor biology and may impact therapy decisions and stratification of future clinical trials.
Medial joint space and peak adduction angle may be useful for predicting knee pain in patients with medial knee OA. Therapies that target these structural and functional variables may reduce knee pain in this population.
The decisions relies on clinical data and preoperative work-up but also on the experience and habits of the centre of excellence. For complex cases that does not fit with current guidelines, the panel discussion can lead to different therapeutic options from a centre to another and is largely influenced by the local organisation of the RCP.
Local failure in NSCLC appears most common at the primary site and within the irradiated target volume with the highest FDG uptake. This observation may be useful for further optimization of radiotherapy of NSCLC, for example, by the application of additional radiation dose to subvolumes of primary tumors with higher FDG uptake.
Although CIs overlap, there is a clear trend towards a decreased risk with etanercept compared with monoclonal TNFis.
ACOS patients diagnosed on the basis of a previous diagnosis of asthma differed from the remaining COPD patients, but they were similar to ACOS patients diagnosed according to more restrictive criteria, suggesting that a history of asthma before the age of 40 years could be a useful criterion to suspect ACOS in a patient with COPD.
Results of the study indicate that galectin-3 is expressed in the neonatal, young, and mature rat disc, and its expression is not restricted to the cells of the nucleus pulposus. Because of its ubiquitous expression, this protein cannot be used as a marker of notochordal cells in the postnatal rat disc.
In this small sample, patients not receiving sedation fared better, had higher rates of successful angiographic reperfusion and had fewer complications. Further examination of the indications for procedural sedation or paralysis and their effect on outcome is warranted.
Intramedullary nailing causes additional damage to lungs after lung damage and haemorrhagic shock in sheep. This can be avoided if (in the presence of additional injuries) alternative methods are used.
Non-cirrhotic portal fibrosis is a justifiable name for this disease that can progress to end stage liver disease. It represents a single entity that has been considered as different diseases and given various names on the basis of the dominant element in its heterogeneous morphological manifestation.
Transvenous lead removal is highly successful, with few serious procedural complications. We propose a risk stratification scheme that may categorize patients as low, moderate, and high risk for lead extraction. Such a strategy may guide which extractions are best performed in the operating room.
Though electronic data collection has enormous potential, this study shows that e-mail yields unacceptable low response rates. It is too early to replace traditional pen-and-paper PROM's by electronic questionnaires.
Compared to previous results of 10% DVT in outpatients, our score-assisted drug prophylaxis significantly reduced the incidence of DVT. The score also makes it possible to select patients not requiring drug prophylaxis.
Study results suggest that some adult Mexican smokers purchase single cigarettes as a method to limit, cut down on and even quit smoking. Nevertheless, promotion of the availability of single cigarettes as a harm reduction strategy could provide additional smoking cues that undermine quit attempts and promote youth smoking.
Nighttime hypoxia can affect fasting insulin levels in non-diabetic OSAHS patients. Good adherence to long-term CPAP treatment can significantly reduce HbA(1C) levels, but has no effect on markers of insulin resistance.
In this patient population, MRI demonstrated sensitivity and specificity of 34% and 50%, [corrected] respectively, in identifying any pathologic process of the LT. MRI is capable of ruling out [corrected]partial tears of the LT with high sensitivity (91%) and negative [corrected] predictive value (67%).
Using only histology, liver cirrhosis was significantly underestimated. In our cohort, severity of CHC was not clearly affected by race when alcohol use and features of the metabolic syndrome were taken into consideration. However, there was a trend for African Americans to have lower cirrhosis rates.
Breastfeeding in infancy may protect against both poor mental well-being and obesity in childhood.
Family meals have the potential to play an important role in the prevention of unhealthy weight control behaviors among youth. Findings suggest that attention needs to be directed toward increasing family meal frequency and creating a positive environment for family meals.
Our results demonstrate the importance of both chronicity and severity of depression in terms of predicting increased suicide risk. Among the various forms of depressive illness examined, only recurrent MDD appeared to confer greater risk for suicide.
The limb anomaly in our case might be attributed to rifampicin usage during the first 2 months of pregnancy. Caution should be given with regard to possible congenital malformations which could be associated with the treatment of pregnant women with antituberculous drugs.
Based on our results, we conclude that more than 50% of our SDNS patients with MCD remained relapse-free 4 years post-CYC treatment. No significant difference in the response to CYC was observed between patients with or without IgM positivity.
Characteristics of individuals at risk and incidence of HIV infection have remained stable from 1981 to 1992. Analysis of data from the comprehensive surveillance and control program established in Colorado Springs in response to the AIDS epidemic suggests that, unlike the nation's epicenters, HIV incidence in this location is neither widespread nor rapidly increasing. The age distribution of reported cases is slowly increasing, and the ratio of newly reported cases to deaths is declining, implying stable or decreasing incidence; deaths may soon exceed new cases. Using data routinely available to public health officials, we conclude that the epidemiologic picture of AIDS--like the clinical one--must be heterogeneous, and that rational planning for the impact of AIDS should be based on the collection and analysis of local data.
The findings of the present study revealed poor agreement between the subjectively estimated nocturnal frequency and chart-determined nocturnal frequency. Our results suggest that FV charts should be included as an integral part of evaluating nocturia in both sexes.
Nocturnal reduction of IEDs is related to the response to the KD, however in daily clinical practice, an early EEG to predict seizure reduction should not be advised for individual patients.
The risk of new GO in the first year after RIT was low and the clinical course of GO was mild when RIT was combined with a low-dose glucocorticoid regimen. Preventive administration of glucocorticoids can therefore be recommended in patients with Graves' disease even without evident GO.
Although CXR is a sensitive screening modality, it failed to identify the possibility of BTAI in 11% of patients. The liberal use of chest CTA after high speed motor vehicle crashes is recommended to minimize the incidence of missed BTAI.
Our results indicate that patients with severely impaired UL motor function spent more time actively in VR training, which may influence recovery. The upcoming results of the VIRTUES trial will show whether this is correlated with an increased effect of VR compared to CT.
Hypothyroidism as indicated by elevated basal TSH and abnormal TRH response was common in the HIV-infected children in this study and may have contributed to failure of growth in these children. Replacement therapy resulted in correction of abnormal TSH and improvement of height z scores during the period of observation. The significance of these findings needs to be confirmed in a larger prospective study.
Adjunctive G-CSF treatment does not appear to hasten the clinical resolution of diabetic foot infection or ulceration but is associated with a reduced rate of amputation and other surgical procedures. The small number of patients who needed to be treated to gain these benefits suggests that using G-CSF should be considered, especially in patients with limb-threatening infections.
FSA is safe and accurate in evaluating reexcision lumpectomy margins. Gross inspection is not reliable in margin evaluation. FSA saved an additional operation 32% of the time. Obtaining clear margins during one procedure eliminates the necessity of an additional radiation boost and probably will improve cosmesis.
The increased use of ACE-I is mostly restricted to hypertensive patients with comorbidities for which their use has been recommended. Trends in prescribing of ARBs are not related to relevant comorbidities.
The availability of data about occupational cancers in Canada is inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and reporting is incomplete. An active disease surveillance system and additional education of physicians and workers about work-related illnesses may be required to improve reporting.
Simulation modelling is a potentially useful approach to the study of U-MAEs, although care must be taken to ensure that such models reflect actual practice rather than stated policy.
The present study demonstrated that SS-CLE remains stable in length over time, especially in patients without atrophic gastritis, as well as in those with reflux esophagitis and/or flame-shaped SS-CLE at initial examination.
Standard 24-h observation may not be required for adult patients with single intracranial bleeds with maximum diameter less than 5 mm, without a history of inherited coagulopathy or anticoagulant therapy, platelet aggregation inhibitor therapy, intoxication or multiple associated injuries. The decision for discharging patients may be made from the clinical picture. This might help to spare hospital resources and reduce unnecessary hospitalisations.
These findings further support that the method is safe and stent thrombosis was not observed. Post-stenting recoil was more with coil stents. Dislodgment and potential risk of embolization could not be underestimated with bare stents. The restenosis rate between different types of stents remains to be determined.
This study of cardiac surgical patients requiring>or =5 days of intensive treatment did not identify factors unequivocally justifying early treatment limitation in individuals. It found that 1-year mortality and disability rates can be maintained at a low level in this subset of patients, and that severe suffering in the ICU is infrequent.
Our results imply that in patients with non-EBV-related leukemic low-grade B-cell lymphoma, LMP1 expression is possibly correlated to apoptosis, as indicated by the lower survivin mRNA levels in LMP1(+) patients.
Current evidence, the majority of which has been industry funded, suggests that CDT should be considered as the first-line therapy for smPE. Our experience, in this single-institution retrospective review, demonstrates that CDT with USAT in the treatment of smPE is safe, while providing immediate resolution of both RV strain and clinical symptoms such as shortness-of-breath and chest pain. We hope that these data will allow other institutions to consider CDT as a plausible option in the treatment of smPE.
Values of the AUASI obtained by interviewer administration may be lower than those obtained by self-administered questionnaires. When assessment of change in urinary symptoms over time is of interest, the same standardized method of questionnaire administration should be used at baseline and follow-up evaluations to avoid introducing artifactual differences related to the mode of administration.
The importance of community clustering of neighborhood-level characteristics differs by gender in South Africa. Poverty remains a central risk factor for HIV among young women, regardless of the surrounding context, but not among men.
The findings suggest that introducing a sit-to-stand workstation can significantly reduce sedentary time and increase light activity levels during working hours. However, these changes were compensated for by reducing activity and increasing sitting outside of working hours. An intervention of a sit-to-stand workstation should be accompanied by an intervention outside of working hours to limit behavior compensation.
Our study showed an association between current smoking and favourable short-term outcome in stroke patients treated with tPA, but not in acute stroke patients not treated with tPA. This may indicate a more effective thrombolysis with tPA in smokers.
Short-term outcomes were satisfactory, with low complication and mortality rates. Mid-term outcomes showed maintenance of the minimal required ADL and good motivation for living. However, independence in social activities was decreased, suggesting the need for comprehensive social support.
Diminutive, flat, depressed lesions in this study had low rates of the genetic alterations associated with malignant progression. This indicates that either a different neoplastic mechanism is operative or that these lesions have a lower malignant potential than indicated by their histopathologic features.
Future studies may benefit from investigating the factors suspected to be driving the weak relationships between these measures, including the actual time over which the reported alcohol was consumed and pattern of drinking over the consumption period.
In upper quadrants or deep breast cancers the interpectoral nodes may be the earliest site of nodal metastasis. This may lead to false negative results in some sentinel node biopsies.
A clear Th2 shift was observed in schizophrenia, but not in schizophrenia-related disorders. The Th2 shift in schizophrenia appeared to be an aberrant developmental phenomenon.
Hepatic duct diameter increases after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. A better understanding of this phenomenon may limit the need for further work-up in patients with incidentally detected biliary dilation.
Our results showed a fourfold increased prevalence of asymptomatic renal stone disease in patients with surgically proven primary hyperparathyroidism compared with subjects not affected by the disorder. The National Institutes of Health consensus conference on asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism recommended that patients with renal stone disease undergo parathyroid surgery. These patients should undergo surgery even if they have minimal or no elevation of the total serum calcium value and no other metabolic manifestations of hyperparathyroidism. The finding of nephrocalcinosis or nephrolithiasis is, therefore, a significant finding in evaluating patients for parathyroid surgery. Routine imaging of the kidneys is necessary when primary hyperparathyroidism is documented.
Relative to combined breast and local lymph node irradiation, isolated breast irradiation does not appear to be associated with a higher risk of locoregional relapse or death among cN0 to cN2 breast cancer patients with pN0 status after NAC. These results need to be confirmed in a prospective study.
We need more clinic studies to document with precision the selective IgE deficiency.
• Although higher BMI was significantly associated with extracapsular extension of tumour, BMI did not significantly enhance the ability to preoperatively predict extracapsular extension of tumour and was not significantly associated with PSA outcome or with other objective pathological outcomes in Korean men undergoing RP, who are generally leaner than their western counterparts.
Consistency of the mode of completion of HRQoL instruments is important since co-reporting may alter HRQoL ratings in PD and lead to inaccurate conclusions. Mutuality is a mediator of mental HRQoL.
Apart from lipids, also sucrose and casein reduce food intake on ileal infusion, thereby activating the ileal brake. In addition to food intake, also satiety and GI peptide secretion were affected.
Immigrant diabetic patients are younger at diagnosis, have an unchanged baseline C-peptide secretion, higher HbA1c levels, higher WC with lower BMI compared to Spanish-born patients.
Readily obtainable inflammatory marker measurements may better reflect the summation effects of the early perfusion deficit and tissue injury in the blunt trauma patient compared with conventional measures of injury severity.
RT with 30 Gy in 10 fractions is an adequate treatment for bleeding from advanced gastric cancer, especially in patients with poor prognosis.
All cases of gall bladder carcinoma were suspected pre-operatively or intra-operatively. Histological examination did not alter the management or outcome in any of the cases. We suggest that selectively sending specimens for histopathological examination would result in reduced demands on the histopathology department without compromising patient safety.
TLG, MTV and SAM have enough power to predict thyroid cartilage invasion and penetration in irradiated patients. PET/CT parameters do not have enough potential to differentiate thyroid cartilage invasion from penetration.
Lower and higher AMH values were not associated with fecundability in unassisted conceptions in a cohort of fecund women with a history of one or two prior losses. Our data do not support routine AMH testing for preconception counseling in young, fecund women.
The authors' attempt to validate the widespread practice of using NBME examination scores to evaluate and rank applicants to radiology residency programs demonstrated no discernible value for these scores in predicting the success of residents on the ABR examinations.
No medical or environmental factor predicts the hospitalization of geriatric resident. Build a process of decision should be an important factor to decreasing emergency admission.
Reconstructive surgery, which broadens the spectrum of available operative therapy in primary and locally recurrent vulvar cancer, is characterized by a high complication rate. The application of a strict perioperative protocol could reduce the number and the clinical impact of such complications.
For the evaluation of late acute/subacute cerebral infarctions, high -value ( = 3,000 s/mm(2) ) DW imaging offers no apparent diagnostic advantages compared with = 1,000 images and is significantly inferior in terms of SNR and CNR.
Time elapsed between EB and SLNB does not influence the reliability of this latter technique as long as a superficial injection of the radiopharmaceutical is performed, proving a very high detection rate of the sentinel lymph node without evidence of lymphatic relapse during follow-up.
With the exception of smoking, our data does not support a link between increased acculturation and higher prevalence of CRFs in Latinos with diabetes. Smoking prevention and cessation programs targeting Latinos and particularly among Cubans are needed.
This case underscores the need to heighten diagnostic sensitivity for this and other eating disorders at any age.
Sensitivity to professionalism, as defined by the GMC, was higher and exposure to unprofessional behaviour lower in first year compared to fifth year. Addressing the hidden curriculum is crucial to protect professional development; GP teachers should be aware of these findings and are ideally placed to provide mentorship and support to medical students.
DRY imaging is increasingly being performed after injury and has a low sensitivity in detecting splenic parenchymal injury. However, less-specific radiographic findings suspicious for splenic injury in combination provide high sensitivity for the detection of splenic injury. These results suggest CONTRAST imaging is preferred to detect splenic injury; however, in those patients who have contraindications to i.v. contrast, DRY imagining may be able to select those who require close monitoring or intervention.
Perioperative complications following RP were common, whereas the incidence of parametrial involvement was very low among selected early-stage cervical cancer patients. Based on these results, we thought that patients with very low-risk parametrial involvement(tumor size ≤ 2 cm, no LVSI, less than 50% stromal invasion, negative lymph nodes) may benefit from omitting RP. Further prospective data are warranted.
Older Chinese with depression were more likely to have multiple medically unexplained somatic symptoms, particularly fatigue, insomnia, loss of appetite and gastro-intestinal problems. Health care professionals need to be aware of this pattern of somatization and take active steps to rule out any underlying psychological etiology.
Based on present studies, laparoscopic TME does not increase the risk of PAL.
Daptomycin MICs of 3-4 µg/mL in the initial E. faecium blood isolate predicted microbiological failure of daptomycin therapy, suggesting that modification in the daptomycin breakpoint for enterococci should be considered.
Children with osteosarcoma and unilateral pulmonary metastases had similar incidence of recurrence in the ipsilateral and contralateral lung. Their survival rates were also not significantly different. Therefore, contralateral exploratory thoracotomy in patients presenting with unilateral pulmonary metastases will probably not improve survival.
These results, which somewhat differ from the existing literature, demonstrate that there are important issues that should be considered in clinical practice, both relating to clinical issues and the unmet needs of our patients. We are unaware of the results coming from a treatment strategy designed to increase the RA patient's perception of their general state of health or of their perception of function. We should, however, keep in mind that pain, wellbeing and disease activity (as well as remission) should be important goals in therapeutic strategies that are to be increasingly shared with our patients.
The two adjustment procedures of biomarker incidence estimates evaluated here that purport to correct for misclassification do not increase accuracy and in some situations can introduce significant bias. Instead, the accuracy of biomarker estimates can be increased through improvements in the estimates of the mean window period of the populations under study and the representativeness of the cross-sectional samples. Cohort estimates of incidence are also subject to important sources of error and should not blindly be considered the gold standard for assessing the validity of biomarker estimates.
This study showed that the use of dental implants in patients with fibula flaps is an appropriate and successful option for dental rehabilitation, even in those with risk factors such as smoking, alcohol use, and irradiation. Implant placement in irradiated grafted bone seems to be a high-risk procedure.
Postoperative drainage losses in elective cardiac surgery patients are small and a measurable advantage from retransfusion seems to be unlikely. We therefore endorse the routine use of shed mediastinal blood retransfusion in these patients.
Respondents' experiences with the health care system had a greater correlation with their confidence in obtaining needed health care than proximity or quality of medical equipment in health clinics. Despite pro-poor policies guiding health system reconstruction, poor and less educated individuals have less confidence that the health system can meet their health needs.
Compared with healthy people, HHT patients exhibit reduced olfactory  and gustatory function; however, HHT patients are hyposmic and not hypogeusic. This chemosensory deficit may highlight an early sign of disease and has no correlation with disease severity. HHT patients should be informed about these potential disease manifestations, thus enabling them to  improve their quality of life.
This multivariate analysis highlights the potential negative impact of treatment gaps on locoregional control in oropharyngeal carcinomas. This suggests that treatment interruption may be an even more important parameter than the type of RT schedule per se. Thus, when assessing the relative merit of two RT schedules, inclusion of the other therapeutic factors in a multivariate model is mandatory in order to avoid misinterpretation of the results.
MRI provides an effective radiological method to predict the efficacy of the ACT.
It is no longer sufficient to recommend the use of products labeled fragrance-free to fragrance-sensitive patients. These patients must be educated to read labels and look for plant extracts that are potential perfume sensitizers and cross-reactors. Rose oil, which has been felt to be a rare sensitizer, may be a more common allergen than previously recognized, perhaps because of its existence in a popular "fragrance-free" soap and, conceivably, in many "all-natural" products. Further testing with rose oil should be conducted in the future. Finally, manufacturers need to be more forthright in the labeling of their products.
This article indicates that the level of alcohol-related traffic accidents in Estonia has been affected by changes in real average alcohol excise taxes during the period 1998-2013. Therefore, in addition to other measures, the use of alcohol taxation is warranted as a policy instrument in tackling alcohol-related traffic accidents.
The alternative therapy failure criteria work reasonably well, without causing any higher risk to children with non-severe pneumonia. Antibiotics should be changed only in those children who show signs of deterioration on day 3. This would prevent unnecessary changes in antibiotic treatment in many children.
The results suggest that digitalis, like other inotropic drugs, may increase mortality. This may be concealed in heart failure, but be revealed in patients with AF, who need the rate-reducing effect of digitalis, but do not benefit much from an increased inotropy. Cautious interpretation of the data is mandatory since the patients were not randomised with respect to digitalis use.
Overexpression and elevated activity of arginase I are involved in tobacco-induced pulmonary endothelial dysfunction.
The results highlight the statistically significant differences between African American consent and nonconsent cases: knowledge of donor wishes and those involved in the donation decision. These results reinforce the importance of programs that encourage African American families to discuss donation with loved ones.
Similar proportions of subjects with masked hypertension are detected by ABP and HBP monitoring. Although disagreement in the diagnosis between the two methods is not uncommon, in the majority of these cases the deviation of the diagnostic BP above the threshold in not clinically important. Both ABP and HBP monitoring appear to be appropriate methods for the detection of masked hypertension.
MSCs delivered to the surgical site did not promote local recurrence or size of recurrent tumors, but intravenous injection of MSCs did hasten onset of detection of pulmonary metastatic disease. Although local administration of MSCs into a surgical site does not appear to promote either pulmonary metastatic disease or local recurrence, large variation within groups and small numbers diminished statistical power such that a Type II error cannot be ruled out.
We found that at 6 months after lung surgery old patients experienced deterioration in physical and mental health-related QOL similar to that of young patients. Survival also was similar in the two groups.
The CHA 2 DS 2 -VASc score was found useful in predicting POAF after CABG. This scoring system is simple and convenient to use in the preoperative period to alert the clinician about higher probability of POAF after CABG surgery.
Currently available CRL charts underestimate both the age and size of IVF singleton pregnancies by a clinically insignificant amount. This difference is similar for twin pregnancies, suggesting that singleton CRL charts can be used to date twin pregnancies accurately.
TWO(2) reduces recurrence rates, alleviates pain and improves the Q-TWiST. We believe it is a valuable tool in the armamentarium of management of RVU.
Corynebacterium spp. may be underestimated in their potential to cause clinically significant otologic infections. Our results indicate a potential need for expanding surveillance for Corynebacterium spp.
Although a high proportion of patients were not properly informed about their diagnosis, the overwhelming majority were satisfied with the amount of information they received and believed it was useful, reflecting the complexity of Middle Eastern cultural influences on cancer patients' perspectives.
The results of this investigation suggest that if the Oc-C1 joint is free of osseous destructions on conventional radiographs and free of abnormalities on MRI scans at the time of surgery (for transarticular fixation and fusion of C1-2), there is a very low risk for relevant destruction in the following 5-14 years. Thus, no prophylactic oligosegmental approach, but rather a segment-sparing monosegmental approach, is preferred, even in patients with high inflammatory levels.
Despite the intentions of policy, the creation of the new roles did little to extend the idea of distributed responsibility in CMHTs.
Genetic defects of the AR gene are collectively called androgen insensitivity syndrome and include a range of phenotypes from normal males, often with associated sterility, to XY females. The phenotype seen in the males with the t(X;5) is consistent with this syndrome. The analysis of the chromosomal abnormality suggests that this translocation may remove one or more upstream regulatory elements of the AR gene that are essential for its normal expression and its role in typical external masculinization.
The observed endothelial dysfunction following smoking of one cigarette was counterbalanced by consumption of either red wine or dealcoholized red wine in healthy smokers. It is possible that acute endothelial dysfunction caused by smoking could be attributed to increased oxidative stress and red wine's antioxidants counteract these acute effects of smoke on endothelium.
The findings of this study were unable to confirm conclusively that prompt and successful medical resuscitation of those who attempt suicide makes a contribution to the decline in elderly suicide rates and requires further study. Public health initiatives should be designed to reduce not only suicide rates but also rates of attempted suicide; otherwise they are failing in the prevention of mental illness and suicidal behavior, early identification and treatment of those with mental illness and those at risk of suicide, and systematic follow-up of those recovering and recovered from mental illness.
The GPSM scoring algorithm is a simple predictive model that remains associated with biochemical recurrence in the contemporary era. In addition, to our knowledge the GPSM algorithm is the first nomogram associated with survival in patients with prostate cancer.
The thirty-day mortality following surgery for a hip fracture was 9%. Patients with medical comorbidities that delayed surgery had 2.5 times the risk of death within thirty days after the surgery compared with patients without comorbidities that delayed surgery. Mortality was not increased when the surgery was delayed up to four days for patients who were otherwise fit for hip fracture surgery. However, a delay of more than four days significantly increased mortality.
In adults with degenerative scoliosis taking narcotics a significant decrease in pain medication use was noted after surgery. All outcome scores significantly improved postop in both groups. However, the Narc group had significantly greater improvements in SRS pain scores versus the NoNarc group.
In idiopathic DCM, the extent of myocardial fibrosis is related to the impairment in contractile function, whereas fibrosis and perfusion do not seem to be interrelated. The degree of impairment of hyperemic myocardial perfusion is related to contractility and end-diastolic wall stress.
After an initial learning curve and provided careful selection, exceptions to classical donor criteria for splitting can be accepted with successful outcomes comparable to those after whole liver transplantation.
In this prospective birth cohort study, we found that childhood exposure to passive smoke from birth to before six months slightly increased the risk of early-onset myopia. This may indicate a delayed response to passive smoke exposure before six months and the development of myopia at three years of age. Our study is limited by the small number of myopic children at this young age. Thus, larger prospective studies using more objective cotinine level measures are required to fully establish and understand the influence of tobacco smoke on refractive development in older children.
Crime and a lack of quality sporting facilities or options may contribute to greater TV viewing among youth.
The data provided can be used to help guide patients as to whether they are better off accepting an offered kidney or waiting for a potentially better one. If an offer is declined, the next kidney may have a potentially worse outcome.
LSR inhibition by desflurane suggests a central mechanism involvement in the genesis of this signature HFS response.
Mutations in connexin 32 or 43 genes in patients with CRS, including RARS, appear to be rare. The etiologic role of connexin mutations in chromic rhinosinusitis is suspect, and routine sequencing for connexin mutations in patients with RARS or CRS is not cost effective.
The ability to detect pulmonary metastases in patients with colorectal cancer is limited by preoperative evaluation with computed tomography and surgical techniques, including open thoracotomy with bimanual palpation. Pulmonary metastasectomy by open thoracotomy or thoracoscopy may be a suboptimal intervention to remove metastatic foci in the lungs.
Administration of PTBCH during CPB was associated with an excessive release of cytokines. This enhanced inflammatory response with subsequent hypotension may have contributed to mortality in rats receiving PTBCH. The observed patterns of myocardial injury indicate global hypoperfusion and catecholamine excess.
The results confirm previous observations, excluding the existence of any type of relation between simple peritoneal sclerosis to sclerosing peritonitis.
A reduction in bone mass is possible during pregnancy. Routine evaluation of the bone density in all pregnant women does not seem to be justified; however, it is reasonable in women who present with risk factors. These women could be screened with QUS.
Our data show that high circulating sclerostin levels are associated with improved survival and suggest that a low bsAP activity may be in the causal pathway.
Inter-method disparity in QP/QS quantification is high and no method can be used as a gold standard; clinical decisions therefore based on QP/QS quantification by one technique alone are ill-advised.
Our findings showed statistically significantly better treatment outcomes in the urodynamic group (after excluding those with poor prognostic indicators such as DO, low VLPP, and MUCP) than in the office evaluation only group. We recommend exploiting the prognostic value of these urodynamic parameters for patient counseling and treatment decisions.
The use of the studied noninvasive predictors, especially the platelet count/spleen diameter ratio and the right liver lobe/albumin concentration ratio, can help physicians by restricting the use of endoscopic screening only to patients presenting a high probability of oesophageal varices. This is especially useful in clinical settings where resources are limited and endoscopic facilities are not present in all areas. Such is the case in Egypt, where there is a large number of patients who require oesophageal screening for oesophageal varices.
Consistent with the laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass findings, a lifetime history of mood disorders appears to be associated with significantly less weight loss in LSG patients. These findings highlight the importance of the psychiatric assessment in bariatric patients. Additionally, patients with a current or lifetime history of mood disorders might need additional pre- and postoperative care to improve their outcomes.
ISTCs may adversely affect SpR training in primary joint arthroplasty.
Robust composite measures for attachment informative behaviours in the immunisation situation should be developed and tested in a fully powered study.
The results of our study support the findings of previous studies using murine anti-DNA monoclonal antibodies, which suggest that pathogenic anti-dsDNA antibodies cross-react with alpha-actinin.
The characterization of pulmonary findings on staging CT for CRC varied greatly between the radiologists, and double-reading of scans with IPN is recommended prior to further diagnostic work-up.
This study showed significant associations between total duration of breast-feeding and BMD. In conclusion, total duration of breast-feeding might be an important risk factor besides age, weight, and years since menopause in postmenopausal osteoporosis.
Our results did not show a direct association between RLS and CMS; however, RLS was associated with reduced oxygen saturation. Hence, RLS could represent an early clinical manifestation of hypoxia, or, in CMS natural history, an early sign of maladaptation to high altitude.
In contrast to previous theory and clinical speculation, the facial appearance of infants with CLP does not appear to affect the early mother-infant relationship adversely. The infancy period is marked by attachment instability for infants with CP, who demonstrated lower-than-expected rates of security at 12 months. However, these problems resolved in nearly all cases by 24 months of age. Most infants with clefts emerged from the first 2 years of life with secure maternal attachments.
Current smoking did not affect functional outcome at 3 months or the risk of symptomatic ICH in patients routinely treated with tPA for ischaemic stroke.
In end-stage renal disease patients with severe atherosclerosis in the aortoiliac region, vascular reconstruction allows kidney transplantation.
Etanercept therapy is associated with a significantly greater number of reported uveitis cases in comparison with infliximab and adalimumab in 2 medication side effect registries. These results are consistent with previous studies and suggest that this relationship is drug specific and not related to TNF inhibitors as a whole. However, our findings do not support the use of infliximab over etanercept; rather, if a patient develops uveitis during etanercept therapy, then a change to infliximab may be warranted.
Differential diagnosis for cystic lesions are the hepatic cyst, the hydatid cyst and the cystadenoma. Hydatid cysts and cystadenomas are resected whereas the asymptomatic hepatic cyst is left untreated. Hemangiomas must be resected only when symptomatic or pedunculated. The differentiation between FNH, HA and hepatocellular carcinoma is difficult and final diagnosis is most often achieved only by surgery.
In this population of blunt trauma patients with a GCS score of 15, not under the influence of alcohol or prehospital morphine administration, the absence of pain or tenderness on log-roll can exclude a clinically significant lumbar vertebral fracture, but does not exclude a thoracic fracture.
Exposure to financial strain places some groups of older adults at increased risk for unhealthy drinking and smoking. If the current global financial crisis leads to increases in experiences of financial strain among older adults, alcohol and smoking problems can also be expected to increase in this population.
Increased duration of exclusive breastfeeding in infancy may have a long-term protective effect against chronic H. pylori infection and hence the risk of gastric carcinoma. Although further research is required, particularly as to why a significant effect was only seen among men, the results provide additional support for the concept that breastfeeding may have long-term influences on health and that human milk is the ideal complete first diet for human infants.
Inpatient hospital costs were equivalent for patients with and without private health insurance when care was provided in a single hospital. Provision of care for all patients in a common hospital setting regardless of health insurance status may reduce disparities in healthcare utilization.
Establishing the actual incidence of dieting amongst adolescent girls is not a clear-cut issue as it can be interpreted in many different ways, depending on the perceptions of the individual. The results of this study showed that in many cases 'dieting' and 'healthy eating' were perceived in a similar light, concluding that the dietary intake of dieters may be similar to that of non-dieters with both groups being at risk from any related health problems.
Both groups of chronic hemiplegic patients improved after either PBWS with gait trainer or Bobath treatment. Only subjects undergoing PBWS with gait trainer maintained functional gain after 3 months.
Most interventions were inappropriate, despite the availability of effective therapy for several of them. Diarrhoeal dehydration and community acquired pneumonia were the most common diagnoses and were inappropriately managed. Existing effective interventions for dehydration and pneumonia need to be put into practice at referral hospitals of developing countries. For the remaining problems, there is the need to conduct appropriate clinical studies. Caution must be taken when assigning the level of evidence supporting therapeutic interventions, as commonly used classifications may be misleading.
The program achieved significant risk reduction in HIV infection, particularly among female participants, on a relatively low budget.
Genoprotection by low-dose green tea could be due to direct antioxidant protection by green tea polyphenols, or to H2O2-independent signalling pathways.
Use of NIRF imaging was associated with improved short-term renal functional outcomes when compared with RPN without selective arterial clamping and NIRF imaging. With this effect attenuated at later follow-up, randomized prospective studies and long-term assessment of kidney-specific functional outcomes are needed to further assess the benefits of this technology.
Few pediatricians ask about all ACEs. Pediatric training that emphasizes the importance of social/emotional risk factors may increase the identification of ACEs in pediatric primary care.
Elevated sclerostin serum level and poorer tibia cortical bone structure by HR-pQCT were positively and independently associated with higher odds of severe AAC in MHD patients. Serum sclerostin may become a biomarker of mineral and bone disorder and vascular risk in MHD patients.
More research is needed to determine whether the levels of risk perceived by women are warranted and whether a sense of vulnerability for women with SCI is unnecessarily limiting their chances at "a good life" after injury.
Because of the morphologic spectrum displayed by this tumor and the absence of definitive cytologic diagnoses in the literature to date, it is unclear whether a diagnosis of salivary duct carcinoma can be rendered by fine needle aspiration. Nevertheless, if cribriform groups are noted in a salivary gland aspirate, the diagnosis of salivary duct carcinoma should at least be considered.
Combined therapy is used in almost half of hypertensive patients, with the most common action being a drug combination.
Addition of 10 mg prednisone daily to a methotrexate-based tight control strategy does not lead to bone loss in early RA patients on bisphosphonates. A small increase in lumbar BMD during the first year of treatment was found, regardless of use of glucocorticoids.
The study shows that assessment of performance in real practice for a group of general practitioners is consistent from the first round of consultations to the second round. However, significant variation occurs in performance of individual physicians.
Dietary intake is lower among individuals older than 75 than in 65-74 y old. Risk factors for low intake include poor appetite and health status, gastrointestinal problems, and eating alone. Snacking enhanced dietary intake and should be encouraged in this group.
The result reveals a significant strong association between low selenium level and the colorectal cancer risk in both Estonian and Polish populations.
beta-cell autoantibodies were detectable in a subgroup of initially non-insulin dependent diabetic children and adolescents with the clinical appearance of T2DM. Following the terminology "latent autoimmune diabetes in adulthood (LADA)", this subgroup might be classified as "LADY" (latent autoimmune diabetes in youth).
The rate of all adverse outcomes increased directly with increasing risk class in all scores. The new gravity scores appear to have a higher discriminatory power in all adverse events in our study, particularly, the SCAP score.
Vitamin/mineral supplementation is associated with better survival and quality of life in this cohort of NSCLC patients. Future prospective clinical trials should focus on the role of such supplements in patients with NSCLC.
Juvenile facilities have been provided a single set of standards for a diverse system with tremendous variation across and within facility types. Detention centers are just one specialized type. Very few detention centers meet a minimum standard of care, which suggests that standards are simply not being met (hence the low levels of accreditation). The findings of this study call into question whether detention facilities with little in the way of health care infrastructure can benefit from National Commission on Correctional Health Care standards as they are currently packaged, regardless of whether accreditation is the ultimate goal.
Despite some potential risks, semirigid ureterorenoscopic stone extraction and holmium: YAG laser lithotripters are still safe and effective treatment alternatives for management of upper ureteral stones.
Between 25 and 30 cases are needed to reach the learning curve's asymptote of MED. Even during this initial learning period MED is a safe procedure, with comparable results to those obtained with conventional MSD and with a similar complication rate. The key points for reducing intraoperative complications are an adequate expertise in MSD, a precise selection of initial cases, a proper surgical planning and a careful technique, which are mandatory to avoid unnecessary neurological injury in an otherwise secure surgical approach.
These results suggest that high levels of worry in specific domains may increase the risk of CHD in older men.
There are insufficient published data to determine the comparative risks and benefits of corticosteroid injections in Achilles tendonitis. The decreased tendon strength with intratendinous injections in animal studies suggests that rupture may be a potential complication for several weeks following injection.
These results suggested that greater espousal of competitive and individualist values may drive stigmatizing attitudes across cultures.
Simple echographic features can help to predict 22q11 status in fetuses with tetralogy of Fallot. This may improve the efficiency of prenatal screening for this defect.
Neither prophylactic administration of caffeine, magnesium or aminophylline, nor postoperative fluid administration, did not influence the incidence of PDPH.
Social media AE reporters were younger and focused on less-serious and fewer types of AEs than FAERS reporters. The potential for social media to provide earlier indications of AEs compared with FAERS is uncertain. Our findings highlight some of the promises and limitations of online social media versus conventional pharmacovigilance sources and the need for careful interpretation of the results. © 2016 The Authors. Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety published by John Wiley&Sons Ltd.
In contrast to their performance within social and interpersonal domains, children with autistic disorders showed no deficits in processing affect in musical stimuli.
Once diagnostic coronary angiography had been performed, no major differences in the overall utilization of revascularization procedures were noted for women compared with men.
Smoking habit was associated with age at diagnosis and disease location in Crohn's disease, while disease location was associated with the rate of development of stricturing complications and requirement for surgery. The pathogenic basis of these observations needs to be explained.
ITW and a decrease in ankle joint ROM might be due to local stiffness. Differential etiological diagnosis should be considered.
Left atrioventricular plane displacement below 10 mm, can adequately predict the occurrence of in-hospital major adverse cardiac events after acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction, with a high correlation with ejection fraction below 40%.
Our study suggests that, similar to countries that lack a universal healthcare system, health disparity in thyroid cancer also exists in Canada. It appears that while thyroid cancers were diagnosed more frequently in Canadian patients of higher SES, Canadian patients in the lower SES groups had more advanced stage thyroid cancer at presentation.
Our data suggest an involvement of chromosome 16 mutations in the early steps of breast papillary tumorigenesis. TP53 deletion and possibly LOH at 16q23 appear to play a role as progression factors, being they significantly associated with malignant transformation of breast papilloma.
The behaviour of platelets and their respective MPV could be an indirect sign of disturbance in platelet production and activity, and bone marrow response in sepsis. Our results could suggest that routine concomitant measurement of PC and MPV trend could be considered as a quick and reliable guide in the assessment of bone marrow response to sepsis evolution.
These data provide evidence that, like lithium, chronic exposure to valproate produces a significant time-dependent down-regulation of the PKC substrate MARCKS, whereas carbamazepine is without effect. The MARCKS reduction produced by valproate appears to occur independently of inositol concentrations yet is additive with the reduction produced by lithium, which is inositol-reversible. Valproate- and lithium-induced regulation of MARCKS expression appears to be mediated by different mechanisms that may utilize PKC, and may be associated with the clinical profile of these mood stabilizers. Regulation of MARCKS expression may be associated with the prophylactic efficacy of lithium in the long-term stabilization of the recurrent affective episodes in bipolar disorder, and valproate may share this property.
Considerable discrepancies exist between preoperative neck diameter and infrarenal aortic length measurements obtained from CT scans and angiograms used to evaluate candidates for endovascular aortic aneurysm repair. CT alone may not be adequate for predicting the feasibility of endovascular AAA repair.
The study confirmed that the use of sterile surgical gloves offers no advantage over clean nonsterile gloves in minimizing extraction socket healing complications following dental extraction. Therefore, nonsurgical dental extraction can be safely performed with the surgeon wearing clean nonsterile gloves.
In general practice, the annual number of asthma prescriptions per child with asthma is relatively low. One in 20 children is prescribed bronchodilators only continuously, indicating room for improvement. Child and GP characteristics cannot be used for targeting educational efforts.
In this study CRP on its own has been shown to have high predictive value in predicting GC, but larger studies are needed to validate this finding. Monitoring trend of CRP in patients with acute cholecystitis may help early diagnosis and decision for early surgical intervention.
There is a trend to greater clinical improvement in the short term for patients treated with additional ACP, however no significant difference between the two treatment groups was demonstrated at each follow-up interval. A larger, multicenter, randomized controlled trial is required to corroborate the results of this pilot study.
The ITGB3 L33P seems to be unrelated to the development of OXLIPN, but it appears to be related to its severity.
The results of this study suggest that dementia occurs frequently in patients with untreated NCC, and it is reversible in most cases.
Upper GI endoscopies performed for appropriate indications resulted in detecting significantly more clinically relevant lesions than did those performed for inappropriate indications. In addition, no upper GI endoscopy that resulted in a diagnosis of cancer was judged to be inappropriate. The use of such criteria improves patient selection for upper GI endoscopy and can thus contribute to efforts aimed at enhancing the quality and efficiency of care. (Gastrointest Endosc 2000;52:333-41).
No evidence was found to support the hypothesis that changing the local anesthetic administration technique (continuous basal versus hourly bolus) when using an adductor canal perineural catheter at 8 mL/h decreases cutaneous sensation in the distribution of the anterior branch of the medial femoral cutaneous nerve.
There is often failure to adjust thyroxine dose despite abnormal thyroid stimulating hormone levels. However, more research is needed to determine the ideal thyroid stimulating hormone levels which should be aimed for in these patients, and whether tight control of thyroxine dosage is able to reduce morbidity and mortality among patients with hypothyroidism.
Compared with standard-diameter leads, both Sprint Fidelis and Riata/Riata ST small-diameter ICD leads are at an increased risk of failure, although the incidence of events is significantly lower in the Riata than in the Sprint Fidelis group.
These results indicate that the serum KS level is not suitable as a biomarker of the effects of short-term physical loading of the back induced by a manual lifting task.
In the earliest phase of ischemic stroke absence of mSSEP response is reliable predictor of poor functional outcome.
Amnisure® is clinically useful when the clinician is uncertain about the diagnosis but not useful when the clinician is confident about the diagnosis. The use of Amnisure® in women where the diagnosis is uncertain is likely to significantly change management, including reduced hospitalisation for women with preterm PROM.
These findings suggest that diffuse bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria appears to be more related to injuries caused by environmental factors, whereas BPPP has a stronger genetic predisposition. In addition, BPPP appears to have a wider clinical spectrum than previously believed, and may represent a milder extreme within the spectrum of CBPS.
The flow characteristics of CCMs seem to be the main factor contributing to the degree of contrast enhancement while the degree of internal thrombosis does not influence their contrast affinity.
CDDUS may be an alternative, less expensive, and easier method for detecting inflammation secondary to increased SI and spinal vascularization and in evaluating response to anti-TNF therapy in AS.
Increasing cesarean section rate from a low to a moderate does not improve the short-term neonatal outcome in term singleton pregnancies. On the contrary neonatal intensive care unit admissions increased with increasing caesarean section rate. Furthermore it is possible to achieve good neonatal outcome with a low cesarean section rate.
Our data would suggest contact cooling temperatures 5 degrees C and below completely protects through the entire dermis. There was no evidence of epidermal injury with protective cooling at any temperature between 0 and 25 degrees C. Warmer temperatures are safe and adequately protect the epidermis in this model.
MICPBs are associated with reduced morbidity. However, these results will need to be confirmed in a large, prospective, randomized, controlled trial.
Male heavy smokers not only have a lower dietary antioxidant intake than never-smokers, but additionally seem to use supplementation relatively infrequently.
TOD stroke distance is able to follow changes in SV following fluid bolus amongst ventilated children, and can predict when further volume loading is unlikely to improve SV amongst general, but not cardiac ICU patients. CVP is a poor discriminator of volume status in this group of patients.
Our findings support the good binocular potential in patients with AACE type II. Despite a complicated course and long-lasting absence of stereovision, all patients eventually regained highgrade stereopsis. Resolutely aiming at realignment seems to be worth the effort.
Explicit instructions to match teacher ratings of competence and implementation of incentives were only partially effective in reducing the biased self-perceptions of children with ADHD. Results suggest that children with ADHD, on average, cannot view themselves in a completely unbiased fashion, rather than that they will not do so, although self-protection clearly plays a partial role.
Hyperandrogenism did not seem to influence otoacoustic emission levels or the medial olivocochlear reflex response in adult female subjects.
These results demonstrate that cIMT increase in PP fulfill the criteria for MP diagnosis, suggesting that MP should be undertaken in all PP with altered cIMT, but larger prospective studies are needed.
Professionals should note the low rate of disclosure among these families. In the absence of conclusive data regarding impact on child functioning, professionals must remain aware of the complexity of disclosure-related decisions when working with HIV-affected families, particularly in terms of the family and cultural milieu within which families operate.
Whole blood rapid test seems to be as performant as ELISA test for IgAATG detection.
This study shows that radiation oncologists poorly tailor their information to the needs of their patients. However, lack of tailoring is not associated with worse patient-reported outcomes. Until more evidence is available, radiation oncologists may explicitly ask patients about their information preferences and tailor the information provided accordingly.
Preoperative carcinoembryionic antigen is a very important prognostic indicator and should be considered in future trials. Postoperative carcinoembryionic antigen elevation is a very sensitive marker of recurrence and even of asymptomatic recurrence, but its impact on overall survival does not seem to be relevant. Nevertheless, carcinoembryionic antigen should continue to be used in colorectal cancer patients until better methods of diagnosis and treatment of recurrence are developed.
The provision of 0.8 g/Kg/d of a 50:50 mixture of medium and long chain triglycerides did not affect CyA parameters, which were closer to baseline. In the short or long term there were no attributable side effects.
The combination of 3% mepivacaine plus 2% lidocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine was equivalent to the combination of 2 cartridges of 2% lidocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine in terms of injection pain, onset time, and pulpal anesthetic success for the IAN block.
This is the first report of gouty tophus of the periungual region presenting as a hyperkeratotic lesion. Initial clinical diagnosis favored SCC and histologic evidence suggested a possible early SCC. This lesion can be confused with digital squamous cell carcinoma. The presence of pseu- docarcinomatous hyperplasia may complicate accurate diagnosis.
The incidence of occult pneumothorax in the subgroup of trauma patients undergoing FAST is low. It implies that routine screening for its presence by adding thoracic ultrasound to FAST is unnecessary. Identifying those at risk of occult pneumothorax for further investigation appeared feasible.
Testing an epidural anaesthetic before the induction of anaesthesia takes only 5-10 extra minutes. Knowing whether the catheter is correctly placed means better quality of care, giving the anaesthetist better prerequisites for taking care of the patient post-operatively.
Barium enema examination may be used as a complementary method of cancer surveillance with endoscopy. These methods show about two-thirds of lesions associated with dysplasia.
Although the absolute risk of death is much higher, the proportion of cardiovascular deaths in a prevalent end stage renal disease population is similar to that of the general population. In older hemodialysis patients cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular death risk are equally important. Particularly the registration of dialysis withdrawal deserves attention. These findings may be partly limited to the Dutch population.
Acid base determination is a useful screening tool when considering pyloric stenosis. This model now needs to be validated on a prospective series of patients with vomiting.
Patients with favorable breast cancer histology have a small risk of axillary SLN metastases. The use of SLNB in these patients should be individualized, taking into consideration the small incidence of axillary metastases and the risks and benefits associated with the SLN procedure.
A considerable number of squamous cell lung lesions (50% in this study), clinically interpreted as metastases, are suggested to be second primaries by LOH analysis. For these patients, a surgical approach with curative intent may be justified.
State anxiety was elevated during all three assessment methods. However, anxiety was not predictive of performance outcome in the OSCE, written examination or preclinical preparation test.
Most elderly adults with pancreatic cancer survive longer than 1 year after PD; 36% survive longer than 2 years. These individuals are likely to have acceptable long-term morbidity and overall good QoL, corresponding with their age.
AP diagnosis and admission prediction for emergency calls is similar to other emergency medical services systems despite the relative recency of the AP programme in Ireland. Recognition of non-concordance case types may identify priorities for AP education, and drive future AP practice in areas such as 'treat and refer'.
This study suggests that the prognosis of MF patients is not only correlated with clinical/pathological/serological/immunological variables but it also relies on specific HLA alleles.
The present results indicate that in general heavy drinking among primary care physicians do not explain the low frequency with which brief intervention is used in primary health care.
In our study group, asthmatic patients who presented nocturnally to the ED did not differ from other asthmatic patients in disease severity and therefore do not appear to represent a unique population for purposes of ED management or disposition decisions.
Instillation of a topical anaesthetic does significantly reduce the degree of discomfort produced by the instillation of tropicamide. However, it does not produce any significant increase in either the magnitude or rate of onset of mydriasis.
An early intervention strategy resulted in a beneficial effect in men which was not seen in women although caution is needed in interpretation. Further research is needed to evaluate why women do not appear to benefit from early intervention and to identify treatments that improve the prognosis of women.
Compared with a standard instructional videotape, a behavioral videotape did not change beliefs, outcomes, or costs over 1 year. Cost-effective behavioral interventions with high patient retention rates are needed, especially for those at greatest risk of high utilization of resources.
Significant changes were observed in metabolic parameters in a short period with the subsequent risk of associated cardiovascular events in a group of young patients. Actions are required directed at ensuring appropriate monitoring of these patients in order to measures to minimise the risks.
Quantitative pCT parameters do not help differentiate between LTP and complete treatment, but subjective analysis of perfusion maps may be a useful assessment tool for identifying treatment adequacy potentially enabling identification of areas requiring further treatment at the time of the procedure.
This study demonstrates the effectiveness of Tai Chi training as a method of improving plantar sensation and balance in elderly adults and elderly adults with diabetes with a large plantar sensation loss.
In order to be effective, i.e. to better structure clinical education, a student log should be integrated into the supervision activities.
The awareness of, and adherence to, these guidelines is sub-optimal. This clearly has implications for both the future management of open tibial fractures and the further production of guidelines.
The combination of VF plus exercise training decreases exercise-induced dynamic hyperinflation and increases exercise duration more than VF alone. An additive effect to exercise training from VF was not demonstrated by predetermined statistical criteria.
The results of this research point to the need for increased HTA training, collaboration, evidence synthesis, and use of pragmatic "real world" evaluations.
Transfusion of the least-incompatible RBCs in AIHA patients is effective and safe without any associated increase in hemolysis risk when compared with post-transfusion patients positive for alloantibodies or those lacking RBC-specific antibodies.
In patients with a recent lacunar stroke while taking ASA, the addition of clopidogrel did not result in reduction of vascular events vs continuing ASA only.
There is a discrepancy between the current and growing need for trained pediatric cardiac intensivists and the graduation rate of these professionals from teaching programs.
There is a delay and lack of urgency in the presentation of needlestick injuries for assessment and treatment. Education of emergency staff, other healthcare workers and the general public is needed to reduce the needle-to-door and needle-to-PEP time for the effective management of needlestick injuries and prevention of hepatitis and HIV seroconversion.
This study shows that a multidisciplinary heart failure cardiac rehabilitation program, including an individualized exercise component, coordinated by a specialist heart failure nurse can substantially reduce both all-cause and cardiovascular readmission rates, improve functional status at 3 months and exercise tolerance.
Evidence of recent consumption of alcohol is common among Russian men dying under the age of 55, with severe intoxication common where death is from external causes. However, the high death rates from cardiovascular disease in Russia cannot be explained by misclassification of deaths attributable to acute alcohol poisoning. This study thus resolves one of the outstanding controversies in the story of alcohol and cardiovascular disease in the former Soviet Union.
For most adults with medically intractable complex partial epilepsy, the EEG and neuropsychological test scores remain reasonably stable over a decade.
IL-6-572C/G polymorphism did not correlate with CP susceptibility, but might be a potential risk factor for CHD in a Chinese population.
Routine pathological evaluation of hemorrhoidectomy specimens is not useful and is expensive. All operating procedures in proctology should reflect this attitude. It is nevertheless advisable to select for gross and microscopic evaluation any suspicious areas noticed at the preoperative examination or during the procedure.
Q waves are specific but not sensitive markers of matched defects representing scarred myocardium. Q waves followed by R waves are not more likely to be associated with hibernating myocardium than QS complexes.
In Spain, it is necessary to start several neonatal ECMO programs since some 200 newborn infants with severe respiratory failure or cardiac defects could benefit from such a program annually.
Our preliminary data suggest lateral release is more effective in reducing peak pressure and maximum force differentials in knees resurfaced with traditional standard components than with gender-specific components.
Our results did not show that sequence of vessel interruption during lobectomy plays a role in tumor recurrence. A prospective study with randomization in selection of method as well as surgeons for each patient is needed to confirm these results.
The AAMS transport guidelines for trauma patients accurately predict the potential for serious or life-threatening injury, with the exception of falls and amputations. The rapid access to highly skilled reimplantation teams required by patients with amputations justifies helicopter transport. However, falls greater than 20 feet do not appear to identify potential for life-threatening injury.
Lower MFC indexes of striatal and thalamic brain iron in medication-naïve ADHD patients and lack of differences in psychostimulant-medicated patients suggest that MFC indexes of brain iron may represent a noninvasive diagnostic biomarker that responds to psychostimulant treatment.
Early ENT evaluation and continuous follow-up of HIV-infected patients are suggested. Age upper 20 years and high education attainment were significantly associated with high risk of chronic rhinosinusitis among HIV-infected patients, respectively.
Most pediatricians are supportive of NBS for CF and G6PD but not type 1 diabetes. Pediatricians who live in states that screen or believe that their states screen are more likely to support screening.
There was considerable inconsistency in agreement according to the methods of analysis. The wide variation in scores between adolescent and parent assessment of QoL suggests self rather than proxy report should be used as the primary outcome where possible.
Adults with a brachial plexus injury report a range of activities that are limited following injury, and are under-represented in currently used patient-reported outcome measures. The activities reported in this study could be used to inform the development of a new brachial plexus injury targeted questionnaire.
Functional ability mediates the relationship between strength and QOL in women, while in men strength is directly related to QOL. These gender-specific pathways to QOL may be of importance to clinicians planning interventions for older adults with chronic lung disease.
Terlipressin might contribute to obtain sustained return of spontaneous circulation in children with refractory in-hospital cardiac arrest. A randomized controlled clinical trial should be conducted to investigate the optimal drug treatment in pediatric cardiac arrest.
TAB is still useful in the diagnosis of GCA, even after commencing steroid treatment.
TOMPOOL is accurate: measurements of EDV, EF, and CO are reproducible and correlate with CMR and thermodilution. However, thresholds must be adjusted.
Dual-thread mini-implant with correct micro thread pitch (parametrical relationship with macro thread pitch) in the cortical bone region can improve primary stability and enhanced mechanical retention.
The EuroQol appears to have acceptable concurrent and discriminant validity for the measurement of health-related quality of life after stroke. It may be administered by either a questionnaire for self-completion in patients with mild to moderate stroke or by interview in patients with significant motor deficits.
FJ bone marrow lesions, effusions, and high periarticular signal intensity were common in this sample of patients with axial LBP and substantially more frequent than in prior reports from unselected samples of patients with or without radicular pain. These FJ features demonstrate side-specific associations with LBP. Further study of associations between these FJ features and LBP are warranted.
Our results show a protective effect of migration in relation to perinatal mortality and LBW among women of low SES. Hence, the study underlines the importance of taking into account socioeconomic status in order to understand more fully the relationship between migration and perinatal outcomes. Further studies are needed to analyse more finely the impact of socio-economic characteristics on perinatal outcomes.
Sarcopenia appears to be associated with risk of major complication after radical nephrectomy for advanced kidney cancer. It was not related to overall survival, however. This preoperative imaging tool may be helpful in preoperative counseling and preparation.
Pretransplant renal insufficiency was associated with reduced posttransplant graft survival in status 1B patients. This risk is increased for patients bridged with a CF-LVAD (versus inotropes) who have GFR in the lowest stratum.
Patients with a history of ON and "good" visual recovery, defined in the literature as 20/40 or better HCVA, are left with clinically meaningful reductions in vision-specific QOL. Such patient-observed deficits reflect the underlying significant degrees of retinal axonal and neuronal loss and visual dysfunction that are now known to characterize ON even in the setting of maximal HCVA recovery. There remains an unmet therapeutic need for patients with ON.
Resolution of major depressive episodes with residual subthreshold depressive symptoms, even the first lifetime episode, appears to be the first step of a more severe, relapsing, and chronic future course. When ongoing subthreshold symptoms continue after major depressive episodes, the illness is still active, and continued treatment is strongly recommended.
These findings indicate that patients' perspectives of individual psychiatric treatment and GMV are roughly equal. This suggests that the method of GMV deserves further study and comparison with other clinical models of psychiatric outpatient treatment.
The MPDS is moderately sensitive for the Delphi process derived ALS, ALS-Stat, and ALS-Critical intervention levels, but nonspecific. A low MPDS priority is predictive of no prehospital intervention. A high priority, however, is of little predictive value for ALS, ALS-Stat, or ALS-Critical interventions.
We conclude from these data that nipple preservation is not a reasonable option for mastectomy patients. However, preservation of the areola with mastectomy in selected patients warrants further study.
Preoperative needle biopsy data have only a minor correlation with the laterality of significant cancer and positive surgical margins at final pathology of LRP specimens. Recognition of this fact, and the frequent bilaterality of significant cancer, with its potential for contralateral positive surgical margins even when the biopsies are positive only unilaterally, is an important consideration when planning nerve-sparing, and potentially for focal therapy.
ESWT is a minimally invasive and safe alternative procedure for the treatment of Peyronie's disease. However, the effect of ESWT on penile pain, sexual function and plaque size remains questionable.
These findings suggest that the endoscopic findings of PHG are affected by the severity of the underlying liver disease and the presence or absence of coexisting PVO. There is no association between PHG and the presence of gastric varices. Thus, the development of the gastric lesions characteristic of PHG requires not only portal hypertension but also some other consequence of parenchymal liver disease.
ADC value was useful to differentiate the cystic from the solid components of the tumours. However, it was not useful in pre-operative grading of glioma.
The distinction between EE and GERD cannot be reliably made on histopathologic evidence alone in children with upper aerodigestive symptoms. Despite the recent gastroenterology consensus statement regarding the clinicopathologic diagnosis of EE, children with primary airway symptoms in whom EE is suspected represent a diagnostic dilemma.
This study does not support the assumption that inclusion of infant formula in hospital discharge packages decreases the duration of breast-feeding.
There is evidence that previously described racial inequalities in analgesic use have decreased over time.
Although imprecise, the predicted causal effect of fibrinogen on CHD is clearly different from the odds ratio of 1.8 (95% CI, 1.6-2.0) for an increase of 1 g/L derived from a meta-analysis of observational studies. This evidence suggests that lowering the fibrinogen level may not, in itself, reduce CHD risk.
An intraoral miniplate with monocortical screw fixation system is recommended over intraoral bicortical screw fixation for bone segments in setback BSSO in patients without facial asymmetry.
These preliminary results are encouraging, although further studies are necessary. Posterior tibial nerve electrical stimulation may represent a new therapeutic option to treat the difficult problem of fecal incontinence in patients with IBD.
Drug users who frequently received detoxification treatment did not change their risky drug use practices and sexual behavior. Effective behavioral interventions and substitution maintenance treatment should become an integral part of detoxification programs in China.
Essure sterilization can be associated with new-onset pain or a worsening of a pre-existing painful gynecologic condition, although both are very rare. A careful and complete consent before placement and a thorough examination if pain does occur usually show some etiology for the pain other than the Essure insert.
Although applied on a small cohort of patients, systematic biomechanical differences were noticed between neochordal techniques, potentially affecting their short- to long-term clinical outcomes. This study opens the way to patient-specific optimization of neochordal techniques.
Systemic inflammation after stroke is associated with elevated temperature in normal brain and the body but not with later ischemic brain temperature. Elevated brain temperature is a potential mechanism for the poorer outcome observed in stroke patients with higher levels of circulating inflammatory markers.
These data, plus data from studies by others about D1 dopamine receptors, indicate that dopamine receptors do not mediate the immobility produced by inhaled anesthetics.
After a single local administration with coated balloons, paclitaxel stays in the vessel wall of pigs long enough to explain persistent inhibition of neointimal proliferation. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel does, however, not exclude other reasons for sustained efficacy such as early blocking of processes initiating excessive and prolonged neointimal proliferation.
Our findings show a modest effect of influenza vaccination on disease severity. Analysis of data from seasons with different predominant strains and higher estimates of vaccine effectiveness are needed.
The results of this retrospective study demonstrated that histological types and molecular subtypes might influence the MRI assessment of breast cancers, especially in the evaluation of tumour size.
Although some reports indicate advantages for early surgery for thoracic spine trauma in the polytraumatized patient, careful patient selection should be used. Based on the results of this prospective study, early surgery for thoracic spine trauma in patients with concomitant severe thoracic trauma and low initial Hb levels may pose a risk for poor clinical outcomes.
Prone position 3D-CRT is frequently, but not always, associated with an apparent dose reduction to the rectum and/or to the bladder for prostate cancer patients. As suggested by the increased mean prone/supine rectal volume ratio, the advantage of prone positioning for the rectum may be artifactual, at least partly reflecting a position-dependent rectal air volume, which may significantly vary from treatment to treatment. In the absence of immobilization devices, daily setup reproducibility appears less accurate for the prone position, primarily due to systematic setup variations.
Whereas mortality is higher for the older age group, quality of life scores appear acceptable for those who survive. Even though the hospital costs of treating elderly patients for SAH may be higher than those for younger patients, this should not be used to justify withholding care from the elderly.
This study suggests that the presence of PrU was influenced by the severity of the SCl without any contribution from modifiable vascular risk factors.
Overall rate of pathologically aggressive PCa harbored by potential candidates for AS may not be increased significantly with expansion of criteria to biopsy GS 3+4 under most contemporary AS protocols. PSAD and tumor length of biopsy GS 3+4 core may be useful predictors of more aggressive disease among potential candidates for AS with biopsy GS 3+4.
Use of TNF inhibitors for psoriasis was associated with a significant reduction in MI risk and incident rate compared with treatment with topical agents. Use of TNF inhibitors for psoriasis was associated with a non-statistically significant lower MI incident rate compared with treatment with oral agents/phototherapy.
Trauma centers can be profitable. Group A is responsible for 44% of the total service cost while accounting for only 28% of the discharges. Moreover, this group is responsible for 57% of the profit, and yields the greatest return. The ability to care for the sickest patients, while enormously costly, is essential to the economic viability of the trauma center and its future growth.
Our study shows that age dependency has to be considered with respect to sagittal thorax and spine movements. This finding might be of great importance with respect to the identification of pathological patterns in trunk movement.
These findings suggest that cough variant asthma is a precursor of typical asthma but that atopic cough is not. Treatment with inhaled steroids may prevent the transformation of cough variant asthma into typical asthma.
It is possible to identify situations where people with dementia may be at high risk of abuse from their carers. Any effective intervention strategy should address psychological health problems in the carer, behavioural problems in the dementia sufferer and a strategy to manage high levels of expressed emotion in these situations.
Human spermatozoa do not require incubation under capacitating conditions or the presence of extracellular Ca2+ before they can undergo the acrosome reaction in response to certain agonists. Therefore, Ca2+ influx and/or preincubation to induce capacitation are not absolute requirements for the in vitro agonist-induced acrosome reaction. However, these conditions can optimize the acrosome reaction response to zona proteins. The intracellular mechanisms leading to the acrosome reaction appear to be functional in noncapacitated spermatozoa but membrane changes probably are required before certain extracellular ligands such as zona proteins can exert their maximal effect.
Publishing and research are important to the development of family medicine as an academic profession, in which Israeli family physicians show significant productivity.
Barring one case of partial circumflex stenosis, likely due to the ongoing normal progression of coronary artery disease, these data derived from a limited prospective trial suggest that epicardial application during the cryomaze procedure does not cause anatomic or physiological compromise of the circumflex artery. Nevertheless, laboratory and anecdotal evidence exist that conflict with this conclusion, and caution should be exercised when applying cryothermy in the vicinity of coronary arteries.
The key risk factor for training injuries appears to be physical fitness, particularly cardiovascular fitness. The significant improvement in endurance attained by women suggests that women enter training less physically fit relative to their own fitness potential, as well as to men. Remedial training for less fit soldiers is likely to reduce injuries and decrease the gender differential in risk of injuries.
It is cost-effective to require facial protection in all recreational hockey players.
IBS is fairly common in patients seeking treatment for major depression. Prospective studies should address the question whether treatment of major depression leads to an improvement or resolution of the symptoms of IBS.
Major lung resection in clinical cases causes a compensatory restoration of the pulmonary function and tissue.
Elders' self-ratings of physical function were higher than those of proxies who knew them. There was no difference in mental function ratings between patients and their proxies. Switching from informants' to patients' reports in evaluating elders' physical function in longitudinal studies may introduce error.
Computerized videodefecography is equivalent to the traditional defecography examination. It has the advantage of offering reduced radiation exposure through saving on the use of radiography.
This retrospective study shows that using the OPCAB technique for multi-vessel myocardial revascularization in high-risk patients significantly reduces the incidence of peri-operative MI and other major complications, ITU stay and mortality. Even though the OPCAB group included a significantly higher proportion of older patients with poor LV function (EF<or =30%) and renal problems, the beneficial effect of OPCAB was evident.
Exposure to a parent's mental health problem during adolescence may represent a risk for future welfare dependence in young adulthood. Perceived social support, from family and classmates in particular, may be a protective factor against future long-term welfare dependence.
Our study corroborates findings that biogenetic explanations have different effects in different disorders, and seem to be harmful in depression and schizophrenia. A particular de-stigmatizing potential of the causal belief 'chemical imbalance' could not be found. Implications for useful anti-stigma messages are discussed.
The differences in news media representations between 1998 and 2008 suggest a positive change in the way people with disabilities are represented, with greater attention to the complexity of their identity and their multiple social roles.
This study supports the application of HRQOL measures, including the deformity-specific SRS-22, as a valuable tool in the assessment of adult deformity patients. Change in outcome score stabilized after the 1-year postoperative interval, for most patients.
The disease has no clinical manifestations that establish its etiology: this justifies in-depth etiological research in this group of patients.
The results of the current study indicate that based on older age alone, women are less likely to receive adjuvant chemotherapy. In addition, the results suggest that age bias may contribute to undertreatment and lack of accrual of older women into clinical trials.
It asserts that the solutions to complex problems of human adaptation to the environment are not to be found within the domain of any single academic discipline.
People who have stopped attending medical checkups are at risk, because there is no evidence that ingestion of these insects can regulate blood glucose levels.
Diabetes mellitus increases the risk of the development of free flap complications in elderly patients when dealing with oral reconstruction after tumor removal.
The present findings do not support the hypothesis that omega-3 fatty acid (ethyl-EPA) or carnosine has a role in the treatment of reading and spelling problems in children with dyslexia.
Elementary components on which more complex attention processes are based are not all ok in NF1. It is suggested that overreactivity to and longer inspection of visual signals occurring outside the current focus of attention characterizes NF1 and that this might be partially responsible for focus of attention instability and lower interference resistance in NF1.
We conclude that the temperature of tumescent anesthesia solution is not important, while the proper administration of tumescent solution in adequate amounts ensuring delivery of the fluid to all segments appears to be a more significant determinant for the success of the procedure.
HCV infection is associated with an increased risk for nausea. The strong association between abdominal pain and nausea may be a clue to the etiology of nausea in these patients. Further etiological studies are needed.
There appeared to be substantive overuse in low CVD risk and underuse in high CVD risk (600 000 and 850 000 patients, respectively, in the UK since 2007). There is wide variation between practices in statin prescribing to patients at high CVD risk. There is a clear need for randomised trials for the best strategy to target statin treatment and manage CVD risk for primary prevention.
Post-operative pharmacologic thromboprophylaxis lowers the incidence of symptomatic VTE after major hepatectomy without increasing the rate of RBC transfusion.
Cardiac surgery in the very elderly, particularly with regard to aortic valve replacement, carries a high risk of early morbidity and mortality. However, in selected nonagenarians, surgery can be performed with an acceptable outcome. The risk may even be reduced by an individual approach to the procedure. With regard to potential risk factors, the selection of these patients should be carried out very carefully.
Consistent with the study hypothesis, women who reported higher levels of activity at baseline had less weight gain over time. Furthermore, women who increased their activity during the 3-year interval had the smallest increases in weight and tended to have the smallest decreases in total HDL-C and HDL2-C. The changes in lipids due to activity were largely independent of changes in body weight.
In this study the adequacy assessment performed by a cytotechnologist did not improve the diagnostic accuracy of EUS-FNA. In an established EUS-FNA service with low inadequate aspirate rates, onsite adequacy assessment may not improve results of the test.
Biological effects after red wine ingestion should be re-examined on the basis of combined hydroxytyrosol concentrations from red wine and dopamine turnover.
We found no increase in the prevalence of hand enthesophytes among persons with central knee BML on their knee MRI scans. This provides evidence against a systemic enthesopathic disorder in association with knee OA.
Patient treatment with sertraline was not associated with significantly greater reductions in caregiver distress than placebo treatment. Distress but not level of depression or burden lessened for all caregivers regardless of remission status and even more so for those who cared for patients whose depression remitted. Results imply an interrelationship between caregiver distress and patient psychiatric outcomes.
Cognitive decline may be involved in decreased health utility value in older adult patients with cancer. However, this effect does not seem to be independent, and the patient's physical condition may be a relevant confounding factor.
TNI performed either primarily at the time of acute amputation or secondarily for the treatment of established symptomatic neuroma is associated with a low frequency of neuroma-related pain. By providing a distal target for regenerating axons, TNI may offer an effective strategy for the prevention and treatment of neuroma pain in amputees.
Gracilis muscle transposition should be used first for severe incontinent patients, and electrostimulation should be used if there are unsatisfactory results.
Results suggest that a diet and exercise program can result in significant improvements in a range of clinical and metabolic variables in some people with IGT or NIDDM, although the absence of a control group precludes firm conclusions. Screening for IGT in those at high risk for developing NIDDM and offering those with persistent IGT a lifestyle intervention program could help reduce the progression of IGT to NIDDM.
Health workers in all three country sites failed to perform all procedures stipulated in the focused ANC guideline; this could not be always explained by the lack of supplies. It is crucial to point out the necessity of the core procedures of ANC repeatedly.
Atypical pelvic inflammatory disease is probably more common than its symptomatic counterpart. Whereas this condition is associated with some characteristics of a sexually transmitted infection, clinical predictors remain elusive.
These preliminary results suggest that irradiation of already leukocyte-depleted blood products may not be necessary and beneficial in liver transplant recipients.
This study shows the existence of cerebral parenchymal changes at microstructural level in cutaneous anthrax without neurological findings. These changes are possibly related to the components of the toxin. Our results support the general but unproven opinion that anthrax treatment does not change the existence and the effects of the toxin. Pathophysiological mechanisms towards classification should therefore be reviewed.
In practice, from a theoretical point of view, there is unlikely to be any benefit from combining information from different types of bone densitometry measurements unless they are completely unrelated.
Intra-abdominal bowel dilatation is the only ultrasound marker predictive of complex GS but it is a strong marker.
This study has confirmed that a significant gap exists between current practice and the ideal practice of surgical staging for epithelial ovarian cancer in Ontario, as defined by the corresponding Canadian CPGs. Further investigation will explore potential barriers to optimal practice to facilitate the development of a knowledge translation strategy to improve surgical staging for ovarian cancer in Ontario.
Patients with ESRD undergoing access creation presenting with prior central lines, pacemakers, or arm surgery (fistulas or grafts) were more likely to undergo multiple surgeries to obtain a functional graft or fistula for hemodialysis use than those patients with ESRD without prior central lines, pacemakers, or arm surgery (fistulas or grafts). Color duplex ultrasound should be considered as a standard for preoperative assessment in an effort to improve fistula or graft success rates.
We suggest that septoplasty alone can be adequate for the treatment of CRS with septal deviation.
The results suggest that, in combination with race/ethnicity, features of the perceived neighborhood built and social environments differentiated distinct groups of vulnerable older adults from different age strata that differed in obesity prevalence. Pending further verification, the results may help to inform subsequent targeting of such subgroups for further investigation.
These results indicate that the persistence of depressive symptoms in MDD does not change as individuals move from their third to their fifth decade, from their fourth to their sixth decade, or from their sixth to their eighth decade. An early age of onset, rather than youth per se, is associated with greater morbidity over two decades.
The measurement of post-exercise B-type natriuretic peptide levels may increase the diagnostic value of positive exercise electrocardiography.
Some long-term studies critically examining PPH have come to fruition. A majority of respondents continued to perform PPH. Nearly half of these agreed that there is a "post-PPH syndrome" relating to postoperative morbidities. The most disturbing morbidity was lasting perineal pain of unexplained etiology demanding challenging management. Persistent bleeding from hemorrhoidal disease distal to the staple line requires further management and raises the question as to the use of PPH as a permanent remedial procedure.
ENPs appear to "sign on" to see minor injury patients faster than EM registrars, which may account for the reduced length of stay for ENP treated patients.
Kidney transplant with grafts containing multiple renal arteries rather than grafts with a single renal artery does not significantly influence patient and graft outcomes.
A higher fasting insulin concentration is associated modestly with a lower rate of weight gain in ARIC, but not in CARDIA.
Image analysis using "Image J" software was promising for predicting non-invasive adenocarcinoma with its limited inter-observer variability and high predictive performance.
Medicare beneficiaries in Puerto Rico report generally worse healthcare experiences than beneficiaries in the U.S. mainland for several Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems outcomes and lower immunization rates. Lower funding of healthcare services in Puerto Rico relative to the U.S. mainland may affect healthcare. Strategies such as patient and provider education, provider financial incentives, and increased use of information technologies may improve adherence to the recommended preventive care practices.
The majority of U.S. GI fellowship programs have established the EUS volume to train at least 1 EUS fellow, per ASGE guidelines; however, most 3-year and many advanced fellows are currently receiving insufficient EUS training.
Overall, environmental medicine consultations in general practice were rare. However, experience of the environmental medicine pilot project showed that concerned persons seek help from various health care providers and from environmental agencies. Effective treatment should include counselling by medical, psychiatric and environmental professionals.
Our results lend some support to a presumable role of locally produced chemerin in the progression of atherosclerotic lesions, possibly acting through its CMKLR1 receptor. Further research will elucidate the role of chemerin signaling in atherosclerosis.
Significant endoscopic abnormalities are common among obese Chinese patients which may delay or change the surgical plan. The negative predictive value in low-risk patients was not strong. We therefore recommend routine preoperative endoscopy for all patients.
Attendance at 12-Step SHGs is associated with greater rates of abstinence and active referral, especially by 12-Step peers, increases 12-Step SHG attendance rates. However, improved clinical outcomes among attendees might not occur until stronger recovery peer support networks are established. These results show promise for the benefit of incorporating Twelve Step Facilitation into U.K. treatment settings.
Treatment of Ludwig angina and deep neck abscesses requires good clinical judgment. Patients with deep neck infections and symptoms of airway compromise may be safely managed with advanced airway control techniques.
Cystoscopy was not associated with distressing levels of pain. Pain levels during first cystoscopies were higher than those for repeated ones. Using a flexible cystoscope is associated with a lower pain level in both men and women and it should be used for both genders.
Cochlear implantation in the pediatric population continues to be a reliable and safe intervention for children. Overall the prevalence of post implantation seizure disorders in our population (0.37%) is lower than that of the overall population (0.5-1%). The presence of new-onset seizure activity following cochlear implantation is unusual and while there are theoretic possibilities of how a cochlear implant could be implicated in initiating seizures we were unable to find evidence to support this association.
Abnormal CK levels are common among critically injured patients, and a CK level greater than 5,000 U/L is associated with RF. BIC/MAN does not prevent RF, dialysis, or mortality in patients with creatine kinase levels greater than 5,000 U/L. The standard of administering BIC/MAN to patients with post-traumatic rhabdomyolysis should be reevaluated.
Findings suggest that improvements in neighborhood food retail or PA environments may accumulate to reduce BMI, but some neighborhood changes may be less beneficial to women.
These findings indicate that cross threading may not be biomechanically advantageous and may change screw mode of failure. Based on these findings, screws inserted to 3 degrees or higher would reduce the bending moment at failure to approximately 50% of an orthogonally inserted screw.
Perception of advertising is higher among young smokers; market-share patterns across age and sex groups follow the perceived advertising patterns; and changes in market share resulting from advertising occur mainly in younger smokers. Cigarette advertising encourages youth to smoke and should be banned.
Epidural enhancement, which is likely related to an inflammatory process, seems to play a role in the modification of the size of disk herniation.
A high proportion of patients on conventional corticosteroid replacement therapy are over treated or on inappropriate replacement regimens. To reduce the long term risk of osteoporosis, corticosteroid replacement therapy should be individually assessed and over replacement avoided.
Our findings suggest that hyperbaric oxygen treatment may have favorable effects on epidural fibrosis. Further studies with larger cohorts are required to prove our results.
Given the high rates of existing treatment, screening may not be efficient for identifying untreated disorder. Almost two-thirds of patients with treated disorders remain symptomatic. Use of symptom scales might reasonably be expanded to surveillance of treatment response or ruling out disorder. Substantial resources would likely be required to coordinate or manage psychiatric care among patients, as would a willingness to intervene in existing relationships with other providers.
Our results suggest that preeclampsia is associated with neutrophil activation. The biologic effect of elevated human defensins in preeclamptic plasma remains to be determined.
People with diabetic neuropathy have disease-specific needs and concerns relating to how footwear affects balance. Engaging with patients to address those needs and concerns is likely to improve the feasibility and acceptability of therapeutic footwear to reduce foot ulcer risk and boost balance confidence.
KRG was shown to be an otoprotective agent against CDDP-induced ototoxicity both in vivo and in vitro.
The histopathological spectrum of gallbladder is extremely variable. Incidental diagnosis of carcinoma gall bladder is not rare; if the protocol of routine histopathology of all gallbladder specimens is not followed, subclinical malignancies would fail to be identified with disastrous results. We strongly recommend routine histopathology of all cholecystectomy specimens.
Patients with ruptured IAs demonstrated decreased arterial distensibility and increased intima-media thickness at the level of the carotid arteries. By measuring these parameters via ultrasound, it may be possible to predict whether patients with existing IAs might rupture and hemorrhage into the subarachnoid space.
As has been observed in HF patients, obesity was associated with a substantially lower mortality risk in a clinical population of non-HF veterans. Higher CRF and obesity in later life may account for an obesity paradox in this population.
This study provides an important independent replication of the association between poor sleep and loneliness. However, the mechanism underlying this link remains unclear. A theoretically plausible mechanism for this link, lifestyle regularity, does not explain the relationship between loneliness and poor sleep. The nexus between loneliness and poor sleep is unlikely to be broken by altering the social rhythm of patients who present with poor sleep and loneliness.
Glucose homeostasis improved in response to a reduced caloric diet, with a greater effect observed in the absence of surgery as compared with after RYGB. These findings suggest that reduced calorie ingestion can explain the marked improvement in diabetes control observed after RYGB.
This initial examination of the psychometric properties of the AAS for older adults suggests that this surveillance tool has acceptable convergent validity for ambulatory, community-dwelling older adults.
We found no evidence of a relationship between husband's Korean War GI Bill eligibility and wives' mental health in these data, however there may be a true effect that our analysis was underpowered to detect.
On the basis of our experience, we believe that laparoscopic orchiopexy without division of the spermatic vessels should be the treatment of choice in the management of nonpalpable testes, because it does not affect normal testicular vascularization and is minimally invasive. A blunt dissection and a delicate manipulation of the testis without excessive traction are the best ways to avoid any kind of complication.
Modern cardiology is quickly embracing high tech procedures and trials results but often fails to spend enough time teaching how to control risk factors according to the recommendations of the evidence-based guidelines, even independently of the number of hospitalizations for invasive cardiovascular procedures.
Intravenous urography is not useful enough to be performed routinely before entire USEs.
HDL is a strong predictor of long term risk of CHD, fatal CHD and fatal CVD in healthy middle-aged men. Physical fitness or its changes had no impact on the ability of HDL to predict CHD.
Pedicular screw with a lateral hook screw had the highest fixation value. Lateral hook screw may assist to prevent pullout in patients with pullout risk and hyperkyphosis and after hyperkyphosis surgery. Further prospective clinical studies are needed to show the benefit of such a construct in reducing the risk of distal instrumentation pullout.
Our study confirms statistical evidence of seasonality for atrial fibrillation hospitalizations. This effect is small in absolute terms and likely not significant for policy or etiological research purposes.
The independent Plastic Surgery Match has become less competitive over the last decade. The low average number needed to match in the context of a high applicant match rate supports the hypothesis that programs and applicants may be modifying rank lists from a true-preference list. Noncompetitive applicants are occasionally ranked to match by a program, and these applicants tend to match at their top choice far more often than the average applicant-providing further support to this hypothesis.
The presence of associated intra-abdominal injuries significantly affected the presentation and time to diagnosis of patients with SBI, but not morbidity or mortality. Delayed surgical treatment in the isolated cases was not associated with an increased incidence of complications. Patients inflicted with more severe associated injuries were less likely to survive the trauma.
Inflammatory bowel disease is associated with low HRQOL, which is not affected by drug therapy. The impaired quality of life in IBD is mainly influenced by the disease itself.
High initial compliance was achieved by radiologist or technologist verbal communication of findings and recommendations. Direct communication by the radiologist did not increase compliance compared with communication by a technologist.
We found that QOL appears to be significantly impaired in cancer survivors compared to controls, even when remote from initial cancer diagnosis. In addition, our study suggests that reproductive aging contributes to QOL in the setting of irregular menses and likely profound impairment of ovarian function.
THI permits early volumetry of the residual tissue after thyroid surgery comparable with the intraoperative volumetry. Thus, THI may be helpful in guiding the substitution of thyroid hormones.
Grades I and II renal injuries heal completely, whereas higher grades of renal trauma result in permanent parenchymal scarring. Hence, incidentally discovered renal scars in patients with a history of minor renal trauma should be attributed tentatively to other causes that may or may not require additional investigation.
Our results highlight the relevance of the systematic review of the pharmacological treatments in these patients.
In conclusion, AGT is a rare injury with a good prognosis. Most AGT patients can be treated conservatively. Extravasation in AGT is not only a sign of hemorrhage, but also an indicator of severe associated injuries. However, extravasation in AGT does not always require further treatment. When intractable hypotension simultaneously occurs, further treatment should be considered.
These findings suggest that some in-treatment intravenous drug users would volunteer for a preventive HIV vaccine efficacy trial. Education and counseling will be required to ensure that subjects fully understand the trial's purposes, methods, risks and benefits.
Multiple acute stroke lesions on DWI are common and could be caused by multiple emboli or the breakup of an embolus. In some cases it might become possible to make early inferences concerning the stroke mechanism that could be of use for immediately directing the clinical work-up and treatment of the patient.
The low incidence plateau of human tuberculosis due to M. bovis together with the decline in prevalence of animal infection in the overall period studied suggest a cut-off in the animal to human chain of infection at two points; the animal source and the ingestion of (now pasteurized) milk. This would suggest that disease in humans is now due to reactivation of previous foci of infection which were acquired when milk pasteurization was not compulsory. Based on this, we would anticipate a further reduction and possible elimination of human tuberculosis due to M. bovis in this region in the next 10-15 years.
The use of propofol infusions was in concordance with PICU local practice, and propofol infusion syndrome did not developed in patients. In agreement with previous recommendations, propofol infusions in the PICU appear to be safe when limiting doses to 4 mg/kg/hr and for less than 24 hours; however, appropriate monitoring of adverse effects is still warranted due to absence of robust evidence.
The question of whether this case of ecological differentiation occurred in sympatry or allopatry remains open. Still, the observed pattern points towards ongoing divergence between the two ecotypes which is likely driven by a recent shift in host plant use.
Children with congenital adenomatoid malformations operated on when asymptomatic present a better short-term outcome than symptomatic children. In addition, age at the time of the operation does not negatively affect the outcome. Our findings support early surgical treatment for asymptomatic congenital adenomatoid malformation.
Our findings suggest that adolescents who present with an intratesticular varicocele in association with testicular asymmetry will develop worse asymmetry over time. Therefore, adolescents with intratesticular varicoceles and initial asymmetry should be scheduled for surgery rather than followed.
CPPT decreased the prevalence of a positive TOC for chlamydia infection among pregnant women.
The uHear application is a reasonable screening test to rule out moderate hearing loss (PTA>40 dB) and and is valid at quantifying the degree of hearing loss in patients known to have abnormal hearing.
Phacoemulsification through a self-sealing corneoscleral tunnel is associated with significantly less risk of traumatic wound dehiscence than is extracapsular cataract extraction. The case of wound rupture following phacoemulsification is discussed with reference to a mechanism for the injury.
VD or DEX-induced hADSCs differentiate toward the osteoblastic lineage in vitro. Runx2/Cbfa1, Osx, BMP-2, BMP-6, and LMP-1 are involved in regulating osteoblastic differentiation of hADSCs, but BMP-4, BMP-7 are not. VD, but not DEX, induces expression of BMP-2 during osteogenic induction of hADSCs. VD is an ideal substitute for DEX for osteogenic induction of hADSCs.
Stable patients with a history of MI represent a very low-risk population in whom reinfarction continues to have a severe prognosis. ET is unable to identify subjects in whom there is a risk of recurrence, especially if only ischemic parameters are evaluated (in this setting, a clinical or anatomic risk stratification may be better). The application of the Duke Treadmill Score could help to identify a very low-risk group in which no additional testing is required. Therefore, routine ET in stable patients with a history of MI is better at identifying a very low-risk group than in predicting recurrence.
Further works are necessary to study the exact pathogeny of obstetric cholestasis in order to determinate the best surveillance.
During maintenance therapy, C2 blood concentration between 400 and 600 ng/mL is effective and safe for providing prophylaxis against rejection, and can improve long-term survival by decreasing cyclosporine toxicity.
By 3 months, the proliferative phase of wound healing is complete, and our study indicates that this phase has no effect on clearing the tumor. The maturation phase is well under way three months following C&D, and no statistically significant effect was observed.
Among levothyroxine utilizers in 2006 (prior to the advent of drug discount programs), those with claims from a pharmacy that subsequently implemented a nonmembership generic drug discount program did not appear to have a different rate of levothyroxine claims capture than members from the reference group when followed through June 2010. Utilizers with claims from a pharmacy that subsequently implemented a membership program had a significantly lower levothyroxine claims capture rate. Increasing index levothyroxine member cost was associated with higher levothyroxine claims capture loss. Because the analysis could not directly measure claims capture loss associated with members who switched to a new pharmacy group without presenting their insurance information (e.g., membership discount programs), further research is needed to confirm these findings.
Severe sepsis mortality varies widely in different countries. All known markers of disease severity and prognosis do not fully explain the international differences in mortality. Country income does not explain this disparity either. Further studies should be developed to verify if other organizational or structural factors account for disparities in patient care and outcomes.
Actual doses delivered during treatment were found to be higher than predicted, but the majority of calculated bladder and rectal doses remained in the limits of our plan acceptance criteria. Interfraction variability of the rectum and bladder is a major concern in the postprostatectomy radiotherapy setting, even when patients are instructed about rectal and bladder preparation before the radiotherapy course. Image guidance with cone-beam computed tomography at each treatment fraction may offer a viable tool to account for interfraction variations of the rectum and bladder throughout the treatment course.
Although the overall outcome for small screen-detected breast cancers is good, our study suggests that casting calcification is a poorer prognostic factor. The advantage of a mammographic feature as an independent prognostic indicator lies in early identification of high-risk patients, allowing optimization of management.
A sub-group of women exists who are metabolically normal despite being very obese. Differences in fat distribution, insulin resistance, and physical activity level are associated with metabolic differences in these women, but account only partially for these differences. Future work should focus on strategies to identify those obese individuals most at risk of the negative metabolic consequences of obesity and on identifying other factors that contribute to metabolic status in obese individuals.
In stable, optimized COPD patients who have already completed PR, telemonitoring in addition to best care, reduces primary care chest contacts but not hospital or specialist team utilization.
We confirmed that MCL edema is associated with osteoarthritis, but is also associated with meniscal tears, meniscal extrusion, and chondromalacia. In addition, MCL edema can be seen in patients without intra-articular pathology, recent trauma or MCL abnormality on physical examination.
Large and robust socio-demographic differences in recognition of some cancer symptoms, and perception of some barriers to presentation, highlight the need for targeted campaigns to encourage early presentation and improve cancer outcomes.
These data suggest that these strains differ for genes other than those in the MHC congenic region. The most likely explanation is that deleterious recessive mutations affecting response to infection have accumulated in the more than 40 years that this B10.Q-H-2q MHC-congenic strain has been separated from its B10-H-2b parental strain. During typical experiments with congenic strains, the phenotypes of these accumulated mutations will be falsely ascribed to the congenic gene(s). This problem likely affects any strains separated for appreciable time and while usually ignored, can be avoided with the use of F2 segregants.
This community, with a high confession rate and a high conviction rate, imposed sentences that were consistent with the crimes, with more severe sentences for more serious crimes. Convenience factors, such as the fact the offender confessed, and systemic factors, such as having a court-appointed attorney, did not result in more severe sentences.
The proposed global framework for monitoring UHC will only be feasible in Kenya if systemic challenges are addressed. While the infrastructure for reporting the MDG related indicators is in place, Kenya will require continued international investment to extend its capacity to meet the data requirements of the proposed UHC monitoring framework, particularly for the CCI-related indicators.
Contrary to current belief, community acquired hepatitis E virus infection occurs sporadically in the United Kingdom and should be considered as a cause of seronegative hepatitis.
W-Emix does not reflect the actual CV of the nerve fibers passing through the carpal tunnel. In addition, retrograde axonal atrophy appears to be the primary cause of decreased forearm CV in CTS.
Measurement of preoperative CA 125 is a clinically useful test in endometrial cancer. CA 125 levels of>35 U/mL strongly predicted extrauterine disease but lacked sensitivity in identifying patients needing staging. Either a CA 125 level of>20 U/mL or a grade 3 tumor or both of these correctly identified 75% to 87% of patients requiring lymphadenectomy. Until more data are collected, abdominal hysterectomy should be the procedure of choice for patients with grade 1 tumors and CA 125 levels of<20 U/mL.
This significantly greater maximum flow in the afternoon in men with higher grades of obstruction can be an important bias in studies where the primary end point is to assess a small improvement in maximum flow. Therefore, the circadian rhythm of uroflow has to be taken into account in the evaluation of the efficacy of treatment. Patients participating in clinical research studies should produce their urinary flow in the clinic always during the same time period, either in the morning or in the afternoon, and should not switch their appointment time.
URL CK values in women and in men<50 years of age were in accordance with URL CK values given by the NORIP. In men ≥50 years, a higher URL was found and the findings suggest an upward adjustment of URL in this age group.
The results suggest that narrowing of the internal ring around the pulled through spermatic cord may not be necessary.
Transvaginal ultrasonography of the cervix between 14 and 24 weeks' gestation is a good predictor of preterm delivery in high-risk pregnancies. Cerclage may not prevent preterm delivery in patients identified to be at high risk for this outcome by transvaginal ultrasonography.
ERUS is an accurate method for staging rectal cancer pre-operatively. Accurate assessment of tumour stage can be achieved immediately by an experienced radiologist without specific training in ERUS. Nodal staging accuracy tends to improve with experience but reaches a plateau after 30 cases.
Results suggest that it may not be appropriate to consider powder and crack cocaine as diagnostically and clinically equivalent. As such, researchers may wish to distinguish explicitly between powder and crack cocaine when assessing the characteristics and patterns of cocaine use among substance users and treat these 2 forms of cocaine separately in analyses.
The use of an isotypic control antibody is not necessary to analyze flow cytometric data that result in discrete cell populations, such as CD3+ and CD3+, CD4+ lymphocyte subsets. The elimination of this unnecessary quality control measure results in substantial cost savings.
Our novel survey was shown to be a statistically valid tool for assessment of diabetes knowledge. IMR, FPR, and inpatient RN have similar but insufficient levels of knowledge about diabetes. SR may have a more profound deficit of diabetes knowledge. Previous additional diabetes training among nurses was associated with greater diabetes knowledge. Most nurses and residents require additional education in order to provide optimal care to patients with diabetes.
Positions of leadership in urology are disproportionately represented by Caucasian males and comparatively few hold relevant advanced degrees. Excellence in the areas of teaching and patient care, and high personal integrity are felt to be the most important characteristics for success. Time management issues are viewed as the greatest challenge. These preliminary data may prove useful for the mentoring, recruitment, and success of future leaders in our specialty.
The rising number of new referrals for glaucoma together with maintenance of the PPV suggests an impact on the number of new cases of glaucoma detected in the community. The increase in referral numbers was limited to glaucoma when compared with new referrals for cataract. This implies a targeted effect of the intervention in terms of glaucoma detection. We believe the next step is to perform the study in an alternative location to see if the effect is repeatable elsewhere. If proven to be the case, there is a coherent argument for widespread adoption of this strategy to improve glaucoma case finding.
Limited evidence suggests improved double neonatal survival as well as decreased donor and recipient fetal demise with the use of the sequential technique. However, these results are based on small non-randomized studies with evident forms of bias and methodological limitations. A randomized controlled trial to assess the efficacy of sequential laser technique is therefore required.
All things being equal, in one of the four abstracts, the respondents were influenced by a high-income source in their rating of research abstracts. More research may be needed to explore how the origin of a research article may lead to stereotype activation and application in research evaluation.
Reversal of betel quid use and smoking must be considered in accounting for declining trends for oral cancer. Increasing rates of oropharyngeal cancer raises the issue whether risk factors for the oropharynx are different to those of the oral cavity, and this may need further investigation.
The use of beta-blockers after acute myocardial infarction in Italy has increased more than three-fold in the last decade, but they are still prescribed to too few patients, especially those at higher risk, for whom the expected benefit is greater.
Singaporeans were generally comfortable with discussing death and had clear preferences for several descriptors of death and for "all-worst". EID is unlikely to influence health preference measurement in health valuation studies.
The difference in the rate of refractive amblyopia as opposed to strabismic and deprivation amblyopia may be due to the difference in vision screening methods between both countries.
Patients with uncomplicated incomplete abortions (uterine size equivalent to a pregnancy of 14 weeks' duration or less) can undergo evacuation safely and effectively under fentanyl and midazolam and have a significantly smaller chance of requiring a blood transfusion.
Tonsillectomy allows avoiding irradiation of normal larynx in 26% of patients who have a cervical lymph node with unknown primary. It should be performed in case of a single node of the subdigastric, midjugulocarotidian or submandibular area or bilateral subdigastric adenopathies.
The 3D treatment planning was superior to 2D treatment planning in covering areas at risk for pelvic recurrence in patients treated for rectal cancer. The areas with suboptimal coverage may lead to an increased risk of recurrence and should be correlated with the patterns of recurrence.
Nurses showed an intention to provide individualized care. However, with one exception, nurses did not report providing more care to patients with cancer with high levels of emotional distress than to less distressed patients.
GPs' prescribing patterns are not in accordance with recommended dosage and duration of treatment; this pattern is most pronounced for elderly patients.
Increased fracture displacement and shortening was observed on upright compared with supine radiographs. This suggests that upright radiographs may better demonstrate clavicle displacement and predict the position at healing if nonoperative treatment is selected.
This is the first study to show that by modifying existing PE lessons, significant improvements in FMS mastery can be gained without adversely affecting children's MVPA and VPA. To increase PA levels, we recommend increasing the number of PE lessons per week.
Children and adolescents from central Italy had greater BMI percentiles when compared to other European populations. Fasting serum leptin concentrations showed a distribution pattern related to z-score, thus allowing to identification of two different subgroups. The z-scores of BMI, identified as separation points, indicated a trend to leptin production by adipocytes that could be taken as indicators of significant increases of fat mass. This study proposes criteria and a statistical approach that could be useful in the identification of BMI cut-off values when screening children and adolescents for overweight.
Garden and AO group are useful for the division of femoral neck fractures without displacement and with displacement, but they are not for clinical use. AO subgroup and Pauwels classification are not recommended for further use.
Final year medical trainees from one medical school were able to complete aviation's sensorimotor skills and personality traits selection instruments within the set time frame. They scored differently from aviation trainees on selected skills and personality traits. The applicability and utility of aviation instruments to presurgical training preparation remains to be tested.
Use of a biomimetic scaffold can be a valid option in the surgical treatment of SPONK in relatively young active patients. Indeed, this surgical technique, originally developed for osteochondritis dissecans, has been found to give good clinical results at medium-term follow-up of late-stage osteonecrosis treatment and could postpone or even avoid the need for joint replacement procedures.
The hair nickel concentrations significantly increased after insertion of fixed orthodontic appliances as compared with the control group.
Our data suggest that endoscopic injection is a viable treatment option for VUR in those with OAB, with postoperative rates of resolution comparable to those found in patients without OAB. Furthermore, 40.0% of children with well-controlled OAB no longer required therapy for OAB after resolution of their VUR.
Locomotor sensitization to ethanol persists for some time after cessation of repeated ethanol exposure, and the association of contextual cues with the ethanol experience lengthens this persistence. The present data lay the groundwork for investigations into the neuroadaptive changes that underlie locomotor sensitization to ethanol in mice.
Regularly placed children with Down syndrome learn more academics. However, this is not a straight consequence of inclusive placement and age alone, but is also determined by factors such as cognitive functioning, non-academic skills, parental educational level and the extent to which parents worked at home on academics. Nevertheless, it could be proven that the more advanced academic skills of the regularly placed children are not only due to selective placement. The positive effect of regular school on academics appeared to be most pronounced for reading skills.
maintaining BB associated with dobutamine did not increase the length of hospitalization and was not associated with the worst outcome. Patients who did not suspend BB were discharged with higher doses of the drug.
Although incisional complications continue to be a problem following an exploratory celiotomy for colic, the proportion of horses affected was significantly reduced by use of a bandage.
In VLBW infants, common organisms causing infection have different effects on neutrophil responses. Occurrence of neutropenia during evaluation of sepsis in sick VLBW infants is more common with Gram-negative bacterial infection.
The similar timing and height of the seasonal peak of clustered and unique EPTB cases suggests that winter crowding is unlikely to cause the seasonal trend in notifications.
The presence of a second major criterion in six EL patients shifted the clinical diagnosis from EL to MFS. These data demonstrate that some cases, which are initially diagnosed as EL, turn out to be mild Marfan patients. A clinical cardiovascular follow-up is therefore highly recommended for all EL patients since they may develop thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) or dissection later in life. Also magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for dural ectasia (DE) should be performed in a complete follow up for a MFS diagnosis.
The few effects seen in this study are small and age-dependent, and nearly all our findings support numerous previous studies of no effect of vaccines on asthma. Based on these findings, the fear of their child developing atopic disease should not deter parents from immunising their children, especially when weighed against the benefits.
Maternal antismoking attitudes when their children are young predict adolescents' adoption of smoking at 12th grade, but only when parental behavior is consistent with these attitudes.
Subjects treated in antidepressant trials represent a minority of patients treated for major depression in routine clinical practice. These results show that antidepressant efficacy trials tend to evaluate a subset of depressed individuals with a specific clinical profile.
Based on the similarities between cancer symptoms and sickness behavior, the authors discussed approaches to further test the implications of the relationship between inflammatory cytokines and symptoms for both symptom treatment and symptom prevention.
Nailfold capillaroscopy during cold exposure is able to discriminate between healthy persons and patients with primary Raynaud's syndrome, but seems to be of minor value for follow-up evaluation of patients because of intraindividual variations. Laser Doppler fluxmetry is invalid for both purposes when using the applied cold exposure test.
These theoretical results suggest that, for field angles ≤30°, partial coherence interferometric instruments are of use in estimating retinal shape by the corneal-direction method with the assumptions of a regular retinal shape and no optical distortion. It may be possible to improve on these estimates out to larger field angles by using optical modeling to correct for distortion.
Our results showed that the US-guided technique determines a more lateral SCV approach, with a reduced POS risk than the landmark venipuncture technique.
Patients with T1,2,3N3M0 disease can be divided into prognostically different subgroups according to the number of metastatic lymph nodes in the axilla and the nodal ratio; in this way, different patient subgroups may be offered different treatment strategies.
Continence rates were similar 3 mo after RP in groups performing intensive pelvic floor muscle training with or without follow-up instructions by a physiotherapist. However, in the following period up to 1 yr, the group receiving physiotherapist-guided training reduced urinary incontinence significantly more compared to patients training on their own.
Our study only relied on self-reports of the psychiatrists about the diagnoses and number of cases, but BD in children seems to be rarely diagnosed in outpatient settings in Germany. The design of our study, however, cannot resolve the questions what the reasons are for this low rate of BD diagnoses, e.g. misdiagnoses, overlooking comorbidity or referral strategies. Epidemiological studies are needed and should consider multiple follow-ups.
Improvements in care to injured children associated with the PECFR program were limited to the interval between pain assessment and pain medication for children with extremity immobilization and to radiation use 1 year after the implementation of the PECFR program.
ADHD is associated with a sequence of PSUD in which early alcohol use disorder increases the risk for subsequent drug use disorder, and early substance dependence increases the risk for subsequent substance abuse. If confirmed such developmental pathways might lead to preventive and early intervention strategies aimed at reducing the risk for PSUD in ADHD subjects.
A history of problem drinking may be a risk factor for poorer rehabilitation progress among patients with SCI. They may be more costly to rehabilitate and may be discharged before attaining an adequate level of independence. Despite this, the current rehabilitation prospective payment system does not recognize this common comorbid condition.
Vaginal hysterectomy with morcellation is advantageous in comparison with abdominal hysterectomy even when the uterine weight is over 500 g, since it offers better post-operative comfort than laparotomy without endangering the patients. The main contraindications for the vaginal route are uterus beyond the ombilicus and vaginal atresia. Excepting these cases, the indication for the vaginal approach depends on the patient's past surgical history, uterine mobility and vaginal access. In more difficult cases, these factors are assessed under anesthesia.
Our results are comparable to those from landmark Trastuzumab trials. As evidence continues to emerge that smaller HER2+ cancers may behave aggressively our analysis of stage I tumours adds further support to the use of Trastuzumab in these patients.
It remains to be seen whether longer exposure to blue light under hypobaric hypoxic conditions would induce favorable effects against fatigue.
In this prospective randomized trial, patients with a recurrence of paroxysmal AF had no better outcome after repeat PVI + one left atrial line compared with patients with repeat PVI only.
Continuous compartment pressure monitoring is not indicated in alert patients who are adequately observed.
Spontaneous recovery seems to have a limited impact on the improvement of sub-acute patients, most of their changes being likely due to re-learning during rehabilitation. In addition, a longer recovery time was required to maximize outcome in sub-acute than in chronic patients.
More attention and research needs to be devoted to the prevention of dog bites. Potential prevention strategies include: educational programs on canine behavior, especially directed at children; laws for regulating dangerous or vicious dogs; enhanced animal control programs; and educational programs regarding responsible dog ownership and training. Unfortunately, the relative or absolute effectiveness of any of these strategies has not been assessed. Continuing surveillance for dog bites will be needed if we are to better understand how to reduce the incidence of dog bites and evaluate prevention efforts.
Despite the longer operative time, thyroidectomy (total or partial) can be performed safely in patients with a BMI ≥25.
Hypomagnesemia is a significant pro-atherogenic factor and an important predictor of arteriovenous fistula complications.
Black patients received similar or higher rates of certain types of health counseling than whites during the clinical encounters with their primary care providers. However, there was a significantly lower rate of mental health counseling provided to black patients. Reasons for this disparity require further investigation.
Caution should be exercised when using Tonosafe prisms in the presence of IOP higher than 25 mmHg. On the other hand, Tonojet is an adequate and useful alternative to the Goldman tonometer for glaucoma patients.
Trans-anal reinforcing sutures may reduce the need for diverting ileostomy. A randomized prospective study with a larger population should be performed in the future to demonstrate the efficacy of trans-anal reinforcing sutures.
Only a small proportion of patients undergoing elective major colorectal surgery require perioperative blood transfusions, most of which are nonurgent. Blood should not be routinely cross-matched in patients who are suitable for EI.
Informing our hypertense patients about their cardiovascular risk is linked to a reduction in this risk when it is high.
Qualitative DCE MR imaging time-curve-type analysis performs poorly for differentiation of PCa from healthy prostatic tissue. Interobserver agreement is excellent in assessment of type 3 curves but only moderate for type 1 and 2 curves.
Increased pSDMA and sCysC levels were found in CKD children. Further studies are required to confirm potential applications of pSDMA and CysC as useful biomarkers for the diagnosis and progression of CKD.
The long-axis view for the internal jugular was more efficient than the short-axis view with fewer redirections. The long-axis view for subclavian central venous catheterization was also more efficient with decreased time to cannulation and fewer redirections. The long-axis approach to subclavian central venous catheterization is also associated with fewer posterior wall penetrations. Using the long-axis view for subclavian central venous catheterization and avoiding posterior wall penetrations may result in fewer central venous catheter-related complications.
Much creativity has been dedicated to solve the complex and challenging problem of post-prostatectomy urinary incontinence. Devices used for treating this condition may be grouped according to the mechanism of action and how they are applied. Passive urethral compression, long abandoned in favor of dynamic implantable sphincters, has reemerged. Further research in this field may determine which school of thought may provide the best solution for treating post-prostatectomy urinary incontinence.
The arginine test can be administered for only 90 min without significantly changing its validity, in order to reduce the discomfort of patients and the cost of the test.
A questionnaire to measure new consultants' perceptions of how well their specialty training had prepared them for practice was developed and validated. Findings were similar across specialties, suggesting that training programmes in all areas need to integrate higher-level management skills into their curricula, alongside the development of clinical expertise.
TAE of the gastroduodenal artery appears to be a safe alternative when endoscopic therapy for bleeding duodenal ulcer fails, at least in high-risk patients. The role of TAE in low-risk patients with bleeding from duodenal ulcer needs to be defined by means of a prospective controlled trial.
Improved communication and information in the form of a detailed leaflet and a reminder letter for women with a recently abnormal smear result increased attendance for initial colposcopy assessment.
The majority of Q-waves appearing after coronary surgery were not associated with major myocardial tissue damage, and according to troponin-T one-fourth of the Q-waves were not associated with myocardial necrosis. Furthermore, the appearance of Q-waves had little influence on short term clinical outcome. Therefore, the use of Q-wave criteria as the gold standard for diagnosis of PMI may have to be questioned.
A significant increase in IOP after 3 minutes of tight necktie wear occurred only in the glaucoma group, but this increase was followed by a significant decrease in IOP after 15 minutes of tight necktie wear. Avoidance of wearing a tight necktie over an extended period is therefore not necessary in patients with glaucoma.
White coat hypertension is an infrequent occurrence in mildly hypertensive pregnant women. Although a white coat effect is present more often, this is associated with clinical outcomes similar to women who do not exhibit this phenomenon. Using ABPM to identify a white coat effect in women presenting with hypertension in the second half of their pregnancy does not appear to be clinically useful.
The results of this study are inconclusive as to whether referrals to a quitline add value to brief dental office-based interventions. Patients receiving telephone counseling quit tobacco use at higher rates, but only a small percentage of those proactively referred actually received counseling.
The cryolesion created by 3 simultaneously activated 1.47-mm probes appears to be larger than that of an additive effect. The lesions were significantly larger as measured by ultrasonography and nearly so (P=.06) as measured by the gross cryolesion volume.
Data demonstrate that HSC respond negatively to imagery interventions in a single trial. This highlights that imagery focused therapies (e.g., CFI) need interventions that manage fears, blocks, and resistances to the techniques, particularly in HSC.
We have found that applying a progressive, pairwise approach to the alignment of multiple ribonucleic acid sequences produces highly reliable predictions of conserved basepairs, and we have shown how these predictions can be used as constraints to improve the results of a single-sequence structure prediction algorithm. However, we have also discovered that the amount of detail included in a consensus structure prediction is highly dependent on the order in which sequences are added to the alignment (the guide tree), and that if a consensus structure does not have sufficient detail, it is less likely to provide useful constraints for the single-sequence method.
A well planned shock wave lithotripsy procedure is a safe and effective treatment in children with urinary stones and causes no detectable harmful effect on hearing function.
The occurrence and subsequent correction of implant displacements exceeding 3 mm during fractionated HDR-BT monotherapy for PCa did not lead to increased incidences of acute or late GU and GI toxicity. This indicates that our clinical protocol to correct displacements>3 mm results in safe treatment regarding organ at risk toxicity.
The data suggest PA may show quicker return to sports than RA but the hip scores and rate of return to sports are similar.
The best predictors of an optimal academic performance in these medical students were high school grades, admission biology test scores, residing in Metropolitan Santiago and previous university studies.
Stocking of important antidotes should be rationalised and simplified using central locations, preferably close to the ED. Clinically important antidotes may not be available for patients when they need them. Clear guidance should be available for staff detailing the location of antidotes. There is a need for clarification around the treatment of cyanide poisoning to facilitate rational antidote stocking for this potentially lethal condition.
Prior hemorrhage does not affect the outcome after GKS in terms of obliteration rate, latency to obliteration as well as chances of hemorrhage during latency period. Gamma knife appears equally efficacious irrespective of the mode of clinical presentation in the management of cerebral AVMs; a concomitant use of pre-GKS embolization/surgery may be needed in patients with hemorrhagic presentation in selected cases, however.
This study shows that individual patient recall of symptoms was variable. There is considerable disagreement between their original and recalled scores. However, when applied to a large group, recollection of shoulder symptoms as assessed by the OSS was not subject to recall bias. It is, therefore, possible to use the mean value of recollected scores, within a population, to assess the impact of an intervention. For example, following shoulder trauma where a prospective measurement is not possible.
Most patients who suffer RGSW do not require exploration of GE during abdominal exploration. Complication rates due to nonexploration of RGSW are very low with infrequent need for surgical intervention due to renal-associated complications. High nephrectomy rates may be avoided when GE is averted.
In an animal model, our results have suggested the potential role of urine TGF-beta1 as a noninvasive biomarker to predict detrusor contractibility after BOO.
Linezolid did not display an advantage over vancomycin in modulating pulmonary innate immune response in a murine model of methicillin-resistant S. aureus pneumonia.
We conclude that it is not an advantage to carry out capitonnage when treating pulmonary hydatid cysts.
Despite polytherapy, optimal blood pressure control was not achieved in the majority of patients. OHT patients have a high prevalence of hypertension, which should be treated adequately. More efforts should be made to optimize blood pressure control, particularly when other comorbidities are present. Blood pressure was not related to patient kidney function.
Fish are rich in omega-3 fatty acids, and their consumption is recommended to decrease the risk of coronary artery disease. However, fish such as swordfish and shark are also a source of exposure to the heavy metal toxin, mercury. The fish oil brands examined in this manuscript have negligible amounts of mercury and may provide a safer alternative to fish consumption.
Trabecular bone structure depicted by HR-MR images is significantly correlated with that shown in macro sections (P<0.01); however, a number of limitations have to be considered, including the substantial impact of thresholding techniques and slice thickness.
Significant hydrodynamic differences were noted between NPH and controls but these were unable to differentiate the responders from non-responders. The hydrodynamics of Alzheimer's disease makes exclusion of comorbidity from this disease difficult.
In this study, we show that rodent and human macrophages synthesize prolactin in response to inflammation and high glucose concentrations.
Taking time to "step back" to take inventory of a residency program and ensure year over year and at the end of training residents have developed and matured as planned is an educationally sound practice. Structuring an outcomes assessment system like the one that we discuss here can aid program directors with this important task.
Findings support the hypothesis that CET inhibits NKP by binding to BH1-like motifs and disrupting the α1 subunit catalytic activity through conformational changes. By interacting with Bcl-2 proteins through their complementary BH1- or BH3-like-motifs, NKP proteins may be sensors of normal and pathological cell functions, becoming important yet unrecognized signal transducers in the initial phases of apoptosis. CET action on NKCC1 and K+ channels may involve PKC-regulated mechanisms; however, limited sequence homologies to BH1-like motifs cannot exclude direct effects.
Many of the nation's highest volume EMS systems transport certain PTCAPs emergently, contrary to NAEMSP-ACSCOT guidelines to terminate resuscitative efforts in such cases. Reasons for these discrepancies should be evaluated to help better delineate applicable consensus guidelines for large urban EMS agencies.
These findings show that tinnitus in humans has no effect on the ability to detect gaps in auditory stimuli. Thus, the testing procedure in its present form is not suitable for clinical detection of tinnitus in humans.
Fresh and decaying cattle urine odour baited resting boxes offer an alternative tool for sampling particularly semi-gravid and gravid An. arabiensis. Evaluation in low density seasons of An. arabiensis in different ecological settings remains necessary. This sampling method may be standardized for replacing human landing catch.
Our results demonstrate cytotoxic and genotoxic effects of copper ions released from metallic copper on CHO-K1 cells and emphasize the importance of reducing the initial copper dissolution from IUD without affecting the contraceptive action.
During proctological surgery the overall risk of postoperative bleeding is low, but it can occur up to 3 weeks after surgery and is often severe. Maintenance treatment with oral anticoagulants is the most important risk factor, aggravated by a change to heparin. Clopidogrel also significantly increases the bleeding risk.
On this basis it is difficult to determine if some E-AML are multifocal tumors or metastatic disease.
The bioavailability of linezolid is not impaired by RYGBS. The serum exposure of linezolid is more than 50% lower in obese compared with non-obese subjects, suggesting that dose modification may be needed.
Arterial input function placement distal to significant vasospasm does not affect the quantitative CTP data in the corresponding vascular territory or any other vascular territory in aneurysmal SAH.
We would recommend that chest x-ray should be performed in those patients who have a clear clinical indication and that the diagnostic yield is highest in the presence of respiratory symptoms or signs.
Hospital admittances provide important opportunities for change, but hospital care is seen as fragmented and poorly communicated to the GPs. For shared responsibility and follow up, all participating agents, including the patient, must be sufficiently informed about what has happened and what will follow. For the patient, hospital admittance is usually brief, while the relationship with their GP is long term, even lifelong. GPs are therefore key partners for programme development.
Patients with adolescent onset of psychosis are more likely to present with clinical characteristics that portend a poorer outcome and may require a different approach to early identification and treatment.
Approximately 30 % of physicians who treat colorectal carcinoma do not regard CRS+HIPEC as standard care. Surgeons appear to be significantly more in favor of this treatment than medical oncologists. This study shows that efforts should be made to improve knowledge and increase acceptance of CRS and HIPEC in colorectal cancer treatment among medical oncologists and surgeons.
Outcome after TURP for urinary retention is satisfactory. Advanced age is associated with higher long-term failure requiring catheterization, although it is still recommended in the elderly where an anaesthetic is safe. A high proportion of patients report urine leakage but the majority of this is clinically insignificant. Overall, patients report good quality of life.
Reimbursement policies influence prescribing, but their effect can be unintended. A dialogue between policymakers and guideline developers, and evidence-based policies that are linked to clinical guidelines, could be an effective way to pursue both cost-containment and quality of care.
Despite efforts by family members to conceal cancer diagnoses from patients, the majority of patients discovered the diagnosis of their own accord. This finding suggests that therapeutic non-disclosure is not very effective at withholding the truth from patients.
Three themes emerged. First, congruent temperamental expressions were seen across these two relationships' contexts. Second, friendship and the sibling relationship have distinct etiological profiles, indicating the child-specific character of adolescent friendships versus the reciprocal nature of the sibling relationship. Finally, the common influences to temperament and relationship quality provided evidence for the validity of adolescents' unique, nonshared experiences.
In biopsy and radical prostatectomy specimens of surgically treated prostate cancer, the amount of high-grade cancer is superior to the Gleason grading system in predicting patient outcome. We propose that, in addition to the Gleason score, the amount of Gleason growth patterns 4/5 in the biopsy (whether absolute length or proportion) should be mentioned in the pathology report.
MDE with anger was common in outpatients (more in bipolar II disorder). MDD with anger may be midway between MDD without anger and bipolar II disorder, and might be included into the bipolar spectrum. However, MDD with anger does not appear to be associated with the often reported negative response to monotherapy with antidepressants.
Immunohistochemical staining of biopsy specimens with anti-VP-M660 seems to be a simple and fast technique with 73% sensitivity and 93% specificity for establishing an earlier differentiation of M. tuberculosis from Crohn's disease.
The data show significant dependence of percentage of severe periprocedural bleeding complications on selected classification. The strongest association between severe bleeding and real hemodynamic status was found for BARC classification as this classification seems to be promising for future general use.
In the setting of this study, CCE seemed to be effective in detecting clinically significant colonic findings in patients with an indication of colonoscopy. The high NPV and excellent tolerance of CCE suggest that it could be evaluated in large CRC-screening programs and further studies in screening conditions should also evaluate its cost-efficacy ratio.
Changes in ICD-classification may be influencing observed changes in IHBD and EHBD incidence rates. Coding misclassification is likely to have been skewing CC registration to an intrahepatic site, thereby contributing to the previously reported rise in intrahepatic tumours.
These results suggest that regimens consisting of isoniazid or moxifloxacin plus rifapentine and pyrazinamide may dramatically shorten the duration of treatment needed to cure human tuberculosis.
Bladder stones were associated with infravesical obstruction in two-thirds of patients. Simultaneous treatment with OMC and TURP did not change the effectiveness of these procedures, but caused additional morbidity.
Child health surveillance provides important opportunities to discuss problems that may cause parental concern and to identify children requiring treatment or follow-up. The design and use of the PCHR needs to change to reflect increasing emphasis on health promotion.
ACL reconstruction with fractionated Ebeam sterilization significantly alters the biomechanical properties and the early remodelling process of treated grafts in vivo. Therefore, this sterilization method cannot be recommended for clinical application. As substantial changes in the remodelling are inherent in this study, care in the rehabilitation of even low-dose sterilized allografts, used for ACL reconstruction, is recommended.
We suggest that epileptic seizure is a potential trigger of de novo cAVMs.
Obesity increases the complexity of laparoscopic resections in IBD with higher blood loss, operative time, and conversion rates, without worsening outcomes.
Our results indicate that the incidence of primary gout has increased significantly over the past 20 years. While this increase might be a result of improved ascertainment of atypical gout, it may also be related to other, as yet unidentified, risk factors.
These results do not suggest a clinical advantage for surgery in addition to chemotherapy and radiotherapy for patients with IBC. They support the need for a prospective randomised trial to address this question.
The kindling and sensitization models may not accurately describe the progression of recurrent suicide attempts.
The majority of JHOs fail to test visual acuity or perform ophthalmoscopy in clerking patients. This study highlights the poor availability of Snellen charts, functioning ophthalmoscopes, and topical mydriatics in the wards. This warrants further investigation.
Lumen dilation disrupts the ICC network. ICC deficiency has limited effect on stretch-induced expression of COX-2 and suppression of smooth muscle contractility in obstruction. Rather, stretch-induced COX-2 plays a critical role in motility dysfunction in partial colon obstruction.
Although the screening rates remain low, postpartum reminders doubled screening rates using the recommended test, the OGTT.
IABP is safe without routine anticoagulation therapy. Selecting appropriate artery approach and early detection intervention are key methods for preventing complications.
Several investigations were initiated to justify the modification of the tolerance for the breast localization. They highlighted an underestimation of the calculated dose when high beam angles are set: a new correction factor was defined to take account this error. A specific tolerance was also specified for the breast localization.
The patient education resources on these Web sites fail to meet the guidelines of the National Institutes of Health and American Medical Association. Members of the public may fail to fully understand these resources and would benefit from revisions that result in more comprehensible information cast in simpler language.
Independent of time after onset of stroke, maximum walking speed can be predicted by comfortable walking speed with considerable accuracy. The precision of this estimation is not increased by considering patients' age, hemiplegic muscle strength, balance, or therapeutic intervention.
A delay time of 15 min for the hepatobiliary phase was thought to be adequate in patients with mild liver dysfunction. The serum albumin level and prothrombin time would be predictive of liver enhancement in the hepatobiliary phase.
Most of these people migrated as young adults; we speculate that environmentally mediated differences in pubertal maturation (when the male disadvantage in lipids and fat patterning emerges) may contribute to excess male premature IHD mortality in developed environments.
In contrast to our expectations, pneumococcal adherence was found to be decreased in cold environment in vivo.
Only a small proportion of amateur golfers perform appropriate warm up exercises. To improve on this, golfers should be educated about the possible benefits of warming up and be shown how to perform an appropriate warm up routine.
The performance of vena caval filters differs with respect to clot resolution and mechanical stability. Interdependent filter limbs and single-stage conical capture sites appear to result in more favorable performance in in vivo studies.
Patients with schizophrenia show both failure to activate and failure to deactivate during performance of a working memory task. The area of failure of deactivation is in the anterior prefrontal/anterior cingulate cortex and corresponds to one of the two midline components of the 'default mode network' implicated in functions related to maintaining one's sense of self.
Standard PET/CT is more accurate than ceCT in the primary staging of Hodgkin disease. The authors established that it is not reasonable to supplement standard PET/CT with ceCT in this indication.
Significant increase in spinal BMD in parallel with increased SASSS revealed that spinal involvement prominent with new bone formation, sclerosis and syndesmophytes may influence spinal BMD measurements using DXA methods in AS. Proximal femur measurements seem to be less affected from disease-related new bone formation.
C-Met is independently associated with BL breast cancer. In the future, patients with BL tumors should be included in clinical trials of anti-c-Met therapy.
Neuropathic screening tools such as the LANSS have been used as outcome measures in clinical studies. Rasch analysis demonstrates that the LANSS can be used as such in specific populations of patients with neuropathic pain, however it's reliability in this context does not support use at the individual level and it cannot be used as a generalised measurement tool across pain diagnostic groups. The LANSS remains primarily a diagnostic tool.
Our clinical pathway and algorithm for aortic surgery was easily followed by those patients in the retroperitoneal approach group and resulted in decreases in ICU time, postoperative ileus, volume of intraoperative crystalloid and total length of stay. The patients in the transperitoneal group often failed to progress appropriately on the pathway. Reduced hospital costs associated with aortic surgery using the retroperitoneal approach has increased the profitability for this surgery in our institution by an average of $4000 per case and has increased the value (quality/cost) of this surgery to our patients and our institution. This was accomplished in an academic environment with surgical residency training where cost containment has historically been difficult.
Computer-designed, patient-specific PEEK implants for cranioplasties are a viable alternative when autologous bone grafts are unavailable or unsuitable. Such prefabrication reduces operative times through minimal to no intraoperative adjustments. Although initial results are promising, longer-term follow-up and further comparative studies including randomized control trials to evaluate outcomes between different alloplastic materials for cranioplasty are necessary.
These findings suggest there is a complicated abnormality of the NMJ in HP that may prove to contribute to the disturbances in gut motility seen in this condition.
Our retrospective audit shows that pre-washing of IRBCs is not associated with decreased lactate levels at the end of CPB compared with standard use of IRBCs, suggesting that the added value of pre-washing of IRBCs on minimisation of lactate levels during CPB remains doubtful.
With some adjustments, AMSTAR can be used as a checklist for rapid reviews to describe methodological restrictions in comparison to systematic reviews and to roughly estimate the validity of the results. Strikingly, only 14.3 percent of rapid reviews were published within 3 months.
In a narrow space, the SBT can adequately determine gait and balance abnormalities among elderly patients, indicating it to be an alternative to the TUG test. Subjects who could stand dependently, who showed swaying of the trunk in SBT, or who had a TOLS cut-off point of less than 3 seconds, were at high risk for falls. Further assessment of similar patients is necessary.
Significant recovery in impaired cognitive domains can be expected during neuropsychological rehabilitation. It depends more or less exclusively on improvement in the specific functions itself, and there was no evidence for generalization between cognitive domains.
The results indicate that mycorrhizal physiology is relatively fixed in G. repens, and changes in the amount and direction of C flow between plant and fungus were not observed to depend on light availability. The orchid may instead react to low-light sites through increased clonal growth. The orchid does not compensate for low leaf total N and chlorophyll concentrations by using a (13)C- and (15)N-enriched fungal source.
The data indicate clear socio-demographic differences among Canadian women with respect to their knowledge and use of FA. Although most women understood the benefits of FA supplementation, a little over a third of them did not take FA supplements prior to becoming pregnant, and less than half supplemented according to national guidelines. Identification of those subpopulations whose use of supplements is suboptimal may allow for targeted educational or other interventions to further encourage FA use.
The incidence of (Val/Val) genotype in colorectal cancer cases was three folds higher than controls. This finding is not statistically significant, but it could be of clinical consequence that it may increase the risk of colorectal cancer in Saudi Arabia.
Diagnosis-outcome indicators based on administrative data require validation as markers of significant risk adjusted SV. Validated indicators allow quantification of realisable outcome benefits if all hospitals achieved best performer levels. The overall level of quality of care within single institutions cannot be inferred from the results of one or a few indicators.
According to the results, post-mortem ultrasonography seems to have a very limited role for forensic purposes. Other post-mortem utilizations are cited, proposed, and discussed.
Further clinical investigations involving larger numbers of patients and a longer follow-up are required to confirm these preliminary results. However, the present study seems to suggest that acetazolamide could be effective in reducing fluorescein-angiographic findings and improving perimetric data in diabetics with macular edema, even though the mechanism of action remains obscure. Visual-acuity varied only slightly.
The use of donors involved in major trauma does not increase the risk of early complications after lung transplantation providing their specific characteristics are recognized.
Patients who subsequently develop pre-eclampsia show a significant lengthening in the EST in the third trimester as a late finding, which indicates an increase in the cerebrovascular resistance. Earlier prediction of pre-eclampsia using TCD waveform analysis will require more provocative testing (i.e. hand grip and CO(2) reactivity).
Clinical reality and logistical issues appeared to be greater deterrents to participation than faculty development goals, content or strategies. Moreover, when asked to discuss faculty development, teachers referred to their development as faculty members in the broadest sense, which included personal and career development. They also expressed the desire for clear guidance from the university, financial rewards and recognition for teaching, and a sense of 'belonging'. Faculty development programmes should try to address these organisational issues as well as teachers' personal and professional needs.
this study is novel because it examines UI in relation to nursing interventions. It demonstrates that despite a high prevalence of UI, the general level of concern for nurses remains relatively low. Individualized care is desirable and clinical innovations must be developed for primary and secondary prevention of UI during hospitalization.
Our intensive perioperative dialysis programme could successfully manage the perioperative clinical course of haemodialysed patients undergoing CABG.
Concerns were expressed by young people with malocclusions about the face and content validity of CPQ ISF-16. Further consideration should be given to the need for a child-centred malocclusion-specific OHRQoL measure.
Use of staples for skin closure and less experienced surgeons closing the abdomen are risk factors for incisional infection. Incisional lavage after linea alba closure was a protective factor.
Although all the headphones studied generated significant gauss fields at distances less than 5 mm, the programmable valve settings only changed at a distance of 0 mm (i.e., with direct contact). Given the subcutaneous location of the valve, the authors conclude that is highly unlikely that commercially available or customary headphones can contribute to the reprogramming of shunts.
Postmortem radiography provides important additional information regarding the extent and chronicity of extremity trauma that may not be documented at autopsy. This finding supports the routine use of radiography in cases of suspected child abuse. Normal findings on postmortem skeletal radiography may help to distinguish cases of natural, accidental, and undetermined causes of death from those of abuse, aiding in the proper handling of these cases by medical and law enforcement personnel.
growth predicted in the residential aged care sector is not yet evident. The introduction of standardised needs assessments before entry, increased availability of home-based services, and growth in retirement villages may have led to reduced utilisation.
No evidence was found that bony hip morphology related to FAI or dysplasia prevents successful outcome of the exercise treatment programme with results lasting 8-12 years. The entity of adductor-related groin pain in physically active adults can be treated with AT even in the presence of morphological changes to the hip joint.
Tuberculin surveys may be conducted irrespective of BCG scar status among children aged 5-9 years, when BCG vaccination is given using Danish 1331 strain during infancy under the Expanded Program of Immunization.
Female patients with FAP are more likely to develop desmoids than male patients. Female patients who had an early colectomy are at significantly greater risk of developing a desmoid compared with female patients who had a colectomy in adulthood. Patients with APC mutations beyond codon 1399 are more likely to develop desmoids. These results suggest that delayed colectomy might be considered in young female patients with FAP to decrease the chances of developing desmoids.
In ductal carcinomas, decreased levels of N-cadherin (normalized to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase) in primary tumors correlate with local recurrence and death in long-term follow-up of patients.
A history of abdominal pain or bowel troubles in first-degree relatives appears to be independently associated with both persistent and fluctuating irritable bowel syndrome.
Veterans Health Administration patients with mental illness were marginally less likely than those without mental illness to receive diagnostic angiography, and no less likely to receive revascularization or medications of known benefit after acute myocardial infarction. Mortality at one year may have been higher, although this finding did not reach statistical significance. These findings are consistent with other studies showing reduced health care disparities in the VA for other vulnerable groups, and suggest that an integrated health care system with few financial barriers to health care access may attenuate some health care disparities. Further work should address how health care organizational features might narrow disparities in health care for vulnerable groups.
RVEDWS correlates significantly with RA size and differs considerably between RV volume and pressure overload states. Further work is needed to determine whether this RV diastolic parameter can be predictive of clinical outcomes in patients with RV loading lesions.
Regional and national surveillance is needed to comprehensively document asthma prevalence in American Indians and other underrepresented minorities in the United States.
We demonstrate linkage to a locus on chromosome 9p that is probably distinct from RLS3. Our family with a rather homogeneous phenotype and very early disease onset represents a unique opportunity to further elucidate the genetic causes of the frequent restless leg syndrome.
The risk of chest wall recurrence in this series of patients is 1.7% for all patients and 3.3% for high-grade DCIS. One out of 20 (5%) patients undergoing skin sparing or total skin-sparing mastectomy experienced a chest wall recurrence. This risk of a chest wall recurrence appears sufficiently low not to warrant a recommendation for postmastectomy radiation therapy for patients with margins of<5 mm. There were too few patients with positive margins to draw any firm conclusions.
News reports about cancer frequently discuss aggressive treatment and survival but rarely discuss treatment failure, adverse events, end-of-life care, or death. These portrayals of cancer care in the news media may give patients an inappropriately optimistic view of cancer treatment, outcomes, and prognosis.
Closure of a patent foramen ovale may be associated with reduction in the prevalence of atrial fibrillation.
Great care must be taken in diagnosing DRD even in families with the classic phenotype, because of potential phenocopies of the disease.
A kneeling squat position significantly increases the bony transverse and anteroposterior dimension in the mid pelvic plane and the pelvic outlet. Because this indicates that pelvic diameters change when women change positions, the potential for facilitation of delivery of the fetal head suggests further research that will compare maternal delivery positions is warranted.
Early echocardiographic studies possess negative predictive value and may decrease unnecessary surgical ligation of PDA in very low birth weight infants.
In the dose range of 70-76 Gy to the prostate, IMRT and standard techniques are equally effective in meeting rectal dose-volume constraints. However, whole-pelvis IMRT might be preferable to standard techniques for its slightly superior PTV coverage.
In accordance with earlier reviews, we found that coffee consumption increases the risk of urinary tract cancer by approximately 20%. The consumption of tea seems not to be related to an increased risk of urinary tract cancer.
Even though the mechanism of action through which the effects were obtained is yet to be elucidated, adding CoQ10 to fenofibrate could improve the drug's efficacy in MHTG patients not responding to fenofibrate alone.
The ease of collection and noninvasive manner in which the samples were collected and analyzed support the possibility of the regular predictive use of this novel biomarker-monitoring method in clinical practice.
In patients more than 6 month after OHT, there were no differences in outcomes (ongoing rejection or LV function) between N-T episodes of 3A rejection and T episodes. In T patients the use of oral steroids was equally as effective for treatment of 3A episodes as intravenous steroids.
With prudent selection and extended surveillance of at-risk babies, lack of routine postnatal examination on maternity unit did not increase the risks of hospital review or admission in the first week of life. Worryingly, however, as many as 27% of all babies might not have had routine postnatal examination at all.
The results clearly indicate an altered steroid homeostasis, probably reflecting an increased "adrenal drive" in patients with EC. The results also stress the necessity of using strictly defined, healthy, symptom-free control subjects instead of the frequently used hospital control subjects when studying more subtile endocrine aberrations.
CD-I and CD-T are clinically similar. Trauma may be a triggering factor in CD but this was only supported by non-significant trends in its earlier age of onset.
Despite its importance as a determinant of patient outcomes, the effect of socioeconomic status on hospital-specific mortality rates over and above standard risk-adjustment methods for acute myocardial infarction hospital profiling in Ontario was negligible.
The risk of death is lower after bypass surgery than before the operation in high risk patients. This is most likely explained by a prognostic gain from bypass surgery. The gain is largest in high-risk patients but small or absent in low risk patients.
Immediate postpartum curettage is a safe and effective procedure and can accelerate recovery from pre-eclampsia or eclampsia.
Acute encephalopathy was frequently observed in our patients with severe bronchiolitis. Long-term prognosis of encephalopathic infants was good.
As a result of this study, we believe that large bowel enema can reduce the frequency of septic complications in acute pancreatitis by reducing bacterial translocation.
Endoscopic sphincterotomy is not always necessary for peripapillary choledochoduodenal fistulas if bile duct stones are absent because reflux cholangitis is a relatively rare complication that can be easily managed.
Further studies are needed to confirm our results and to explore the potential cause for this surprising finding.
F-FDG uptake is predictive for microvascular invasion and tumor differentiation. This examination has a prognostic value regarding tumor recurrence after liver transplantation for HCC.
The present findings do not provide support for the conceptual basis of the Oral Health Impact Profile as a measure of Locker's model of oral health. The need for further conceptual development of the scale, and Locker's model, are discussed.
The study revealed some interesting findings, suggesting that skill discretion is not a resource in the pure sense, but that it also has some characteristics of a job demand. The study has relevant practical implications. Particularly, from a job design point of view, the present study suggests that job demands and skill discretion should be balanced carefully in order to sustain job well-being and worker retention.
Esophagectomy rates did not differ when synchronous or antecedent head and neck cancers were present. Similar postoperative morbidity and mortality rates could be achieved. The presence of additional head and neck tumors imparted a worse long-term prognosis.
In experienced hands, intraoperative confirmation of malignancy is effective and will avoid resection in patients with benign disease. However, for many surgeons the chance of missing a small tumour with a false-negative biopsy will be unacceptable and they would prefer to undertake a "blind" resection and accept the mortality risk of pancreaticoduodenectomy for benign disease.
Although the stricto sensu program, especially the master's degree program, has many areas that need improvement, they seem to be contributing to improve professional quality and the number of brazilian indexed publications.
Bx-ABP patients showed a higher incidence of septicemia and antibiotic-resistant bacteria than S-ABP patients. These results have important implications for the management and antimicrobial treatment of Bx-ABP, which may well deserve to be considered a distinct prostatitis category.
Endovascular stent placement for CB allows a rapid arrest of bleeding and permits the use of anticoagulation therapy in order to avoid long-term neurological injury. In our view, carotid stenting should be considered as valid supportive care for palliative head and neck patients presenting with a CB.
Preoperative radiologic studies for osteomyelitis in a pressure ulcer are far from definitive; however, if a radiologic study is used to make that diagnosis in a stage IV pressure ulcer, it would appear that a plain film would suffice.
Maternal stature does not appear to be associated with gestational age but significantly influences birth weight. Height-related differences between mothers appears to begin after 33 weeks' gestation.
As shown in animal models, administration of a glutamate-containing amino acid solution significantly increased plasma glutamate levels. Because such an increase in plasma glutamate levels could aggravate cerebral edema formation, glutamate-containing amino acid solutions cannot be recommended for patients with a disturbed blood-brain barrier.
This study provides an understanding of the barriers that have limited occupational therapists' involvement in providing palliative care in Western Australia.
The histological composition of the prostate cannot be determined by the US prostate volume.
It is inappropriate and inadequate to omit lobectomy or lymph node dissection only on the basis of tumor size. Therefore, it seems reasonable to conclude that lobectomy plus lymph node dissection still remains as a standard surgical procedure to treat cT1N0M0 adenocarcinoma of the lung. We must continue to search for new deciding factors in order to choose candidates for limited operation among patients with cT1N0M0 adenocarcinoma of the lung.
CT angiography did not reveal any complications developing throughout the long-term follow-up. These results suggest that long-term CT angiography follow-up may not be required.
Sustained technological refinement is only likely to be cost-effective if the clinical and biologic understanding of patient-to-patient variability in the risk of specific types of failure and the optimal multimodality approach to handle these risks is developed at the same time. Mathematical modeling together with methods from health technology assessment and health economics are useful complements to standard methods from evidence-based medicine. Progress in functional imaging and in basic and clinical cancer biology is likely to provide the tools required for individualized risk-adapted RT.
The error in early dosimetric measurements is small in comparison to the overall uncertainty in therapy and uptake dosimetry. A valid dosimetry and sufficient quality management can be guaranteed even for an early discharge.
A substantial fraction of women in this study would have preferred the inconvenience of and anxiety associated with a higher recall rate if it resulted in the possibility of detecting breast cancer earlier.
Persistent sepsis-induced hypotension without hyperlactatemia may not constitute a real septic shock. Our results support the need to review the current definition of septic shock. Hyperlactatemia could represent an objective parameter worth to be explored as a potential diagnostic criterion for septic shock.
Hyaluronic acid is safe and effective in the treatment of mild femoroacetabular impingement, with significant pain reduction and function improvement.
There was a significant association between ward doctors' supervision of students and the number of medical activities performed by medical students. The workload had no significant effect on supervision or the number of medical or non-medical activities of final-year students.
In terms of phase and gain, dynamic cerebral autoregulation is completely different in migraine patients compared with healthy subjects. Insofar, this can be interpreted as a lack of sympathetic and parasympathetic control of cerebral blood flow.
Our findings suggest that air travel is not associated with increased risk of complications for pregnancies that reach 20 weeks' gestation.
LSPD patients show a slight response to a supra-maximal levodopa dose, which is greater if dyskinesia are present, but it is frequently associated with adverse effects. A decrease in levodopa response is a potential marker of disease progression in LSPD.
We found a significant relationship between trait and state anxiety levels and pain scores in patients who underwent transrectal prostate needle biopsy.
The presence of surfactant impairs coagulation in-vitro. The risk of PHEM may therefore be greater in extremely premature infants. Future studies are required to assess the clinical significance and relevance of our preliminary findings.
GL- is associated with decreased disease-free survival and overall survival in both age groups. GL+ decreases advanced tumor characteristics in all age groups but significantly more in oBCP. If patients received GL+, we were unable to detect a statistical significant difference in the survival parameters.
Neonatal birth weight is not correlated with a dye-determined or ultrasound estimated amniotic fluid volume.
These results suggest that a preoperative group and save could be omitted in arthroplasty patients on this enhanced recovery programme to prevent needless expenditure, but more long-term follow up is required to ensure patients are not put at risk.
Nurses were in progressive about clarifying why patients did not eat. Patients highly regarded nutrition registration when followed up, however, this was only practised to a low degree. Severely undernourished patients could be divided in two groups. The 'Passive group' should be attended to systematically. Artificial nutrition is often needed in this group. The 'Active group' should be cared for with individual, active involvement from nurses. Nurses should be able to distinct which nutritional care for which patient, and act upon it.
These results question the advantages of early brain plasticity, demonstrating poorer outcome from very early insults, and increasingly better function with lesions later in childhood.
A substantially stronger interrelationship was found between non-PONV and non-CINV than between both PONV and CINV. This may suggest that certain patients, instead of being prone to nausea and vomiting, in fact in some way are protected against these unpleasant side effects.
Patients seeking surgical removal were aware of the limits and risks of the technique. They expressed intense personal reasons for wanting radical surgical removal. The possibility of surgical tattoo removal should be accessible to patients if the tattoo is small and discussion reveals strong personal motivation.
Warfarin therapy administered concomitantly with an antiplatelet agent dramatically reduced the incidence of ischemic stroke associated with postoperative PAF.
Revascularization to the distal third of the PA can achieve much the same outcome in terms of patency and limb salvage rates, wound healing rate and timing, as when other inframalleolar or pedal branches are used. The skepticism surrounding use of the terminal PA as an outflow vessel appears to be unwarranted.
The results support the thesis that female BN outpatients could benefit from an enhancement of SOC particularly with regard to depression and somatoform complaints.
Delivering a tumor bed boost in the lateral decubitus position reduces the distance to the tumor bed allowing for a lower energy treatment to be used to treat breast cancer. It improves coverage and decreases maximal dose to the target volume, all of which would help reduce skin morbidities and should be considered for patients with upper outer quadrant disease, irrespective of BMI status.
Differences in chest dimensions did not explain the substantial effect of ethnicity on LF. Mechanisms whereby ethnicity exerts its influence may include differences in inspiratory muscle strength or lung compliance but remain speculative. Nevertheless it remains imperative that ethnic differences are recognised when interpreting LF tests.
beta-Thalassemia trait may have a protective effect against ischemic CVA that might be caused by the lower arterial blood pressure observed in those with this trait.
With regard to patients who had pT1/2 breast cancer and 1-3 positive lymph nodes, isolated locoregional failure was not common in general; however, patients who had both negative hormone receptor status and vascular invasion were comparatively high-risk patients for isolated locoregional failure.
Urology physician scientists have played a major role in advancement of urologic oncology. Major reform is necessary, if we wish to continue to successfully train urologic oncology physician scientists.
Although LD is not more frequent in HIV-infected than in non infected patients, its clinical severity suggests that it is an opportunistic infection.
A 15-kDa allergen in C arizonica pollen was found in a group of patients presenting peach allergy and respiratory symptoms to cypress. In vitro tests and immunocytochemical techniques indicate that this protein is an LTP.
Taking into account the medical cost and invasiveness, and the frequency of BDM and related bile duct injuries, we conclude that DIC is an acceptable preoperative diagnostic modality to employ at cholecystectomy for cholecystolithiasis. Knowledge of the configuration of the extrahepatic bile duct is indispensable to avoid bile duct injury during cholecystectomy. Various methods of examining the biliary tract have been developed; however, the most appropriate preoperative diagnostic modality at cholecystectomy for cholecystolithiasis has not yet been reported. Considering the frequency of bile duct maljunction (BDM) and operative bile duct injury, in addition to the cost and invasiveness of the various examination methods, we evaluated the usefulness of drip infusion cholecystocholangiography (DIC) as the optimal method of examination at cholecystectomy for cholecystolithiasis.
Consanguineous marriages may increase the overall fitness of populations with endemic malaria.
An estimate of body condition can be obtained from an indirect assessment of photographs, but performance varies amongst observers.
In cirrhotic patients with HCC, a complete or nearly complete PR improves long-term survival after LR and LT independently of other pathological factors. This underlines the importance of neoadjuvant treatment to obtain a significant decrease of active tumor load.
Toothpastes can significantly reduce contamination of toothbrushes, but their bactericidal activity is dependent on their composition. Coated tufts failed to limit the bacterial contamination.
If the medial hinge is preserved, we recommend locking plate fixation. In other cases, either technique can be used as long as the general rules of internal fixation are applied: reduction of the tuberosities, varus correction and stabilization of the calcar area.
Immunization rates of 2-year-olds in nine New Jersey family practice residencies are below Healthy People 2000 goals. Low immunization rates in residency programs may improve with increased knowledge, an area for future study. Research into removing immunization-related barriers is also needed.
Our analyses suggest that the efficacy of duloxetine and pregabalin for initial 8-week treatment in DPNP was consistent across examined subgroups based on demographics and disease characteristics at baseline except for the presence of mood symptoms. Duloxetine treatment appeared to be particularly beneficial in DPNP patients having no mood symptoms.
Duodenal biopsies were performed in less than half of the patients. In those not diagnosed with coeliac disease or upper gastrointestinal carcinoma, only three quarters underwent lower gastrointestinal assessment. Approximately 10% were diagnosed with gastrointestinal malignancy as a cause for their anaemia and in 66% of patients no gastrointestinal cause was found. All physicians need to be made fully aware of the BSG guidelines for investigation of IDA.
A significant percentage of patients were willing to use the medication list card. Use of the card also seemed to increase their sense of responsibility and perceived knowledge of their medical care.
Paediatric heart transplantation patients reported overall similar quality of life as patients with moderate congenital heart disease. Children receiving heart transplants at an older age may require additional emotional and educational support. Heart transplantation patients with higher activity levels may be more aware of their physical, emotional, and cognitive limitations, and thus score lower on these quality of life indicators.
Positive SNBs in patients with DCIS or DCISM are not associated with higher risk of local or distant recurrence. Other features of DCIS and DCISM may be important in predicting recurrence risk.
Database recruitment is a relatively simple and affordable means to recruit large numbers of patients in a timely manner; however, it is not without limitations.
Laparoscopic upper urinary tract surgery significantly improves mental and does not appear to reduce physical HRQoL in patients regardless of aetiology, 4 weeks following surgery. Interestingly, those operated on for malignant conditions do not have a greater improvement in mental health when compared with benign disease.
Although our data suggest that 1:1 FFP:RBC reduced coagulopathy, this did not translate into a survival benefit. Our findings indicate that the relationship between coagulopathy and mortality is more complex, and further clinical investigation is necessary before recommending routine 1:1 in the exsanguinating trauma patient.
using both the IQCODE and a brief cognitive function test when screening for dementia in medical inpatients will maximize the number of patients who can be screened.
Seventeen percent of patients with giant cell tumor around the knee had radiographic findings of osteoarthritis after treatment with curettage and PMMA. A large amount of subchondral bone involvement close to articular cartilage increased the risk for osteoarthritis. The function and quality of life of the patients with KL3-4 were comparable with those for the patients with KL0-2, suggesting that radiographic findings of osteoarthritis at the time of intermediate follow-up had a modest clinical impact. Treatment with curettage and PMMA is safe for primary and recurrent giant cell tumors, even large tumors close to the joint.
Although EP and SPB are both localized forms of plasma cell dyscrasias, SPB seems to have a greater tendency to progression MM. It appears, however, that the apparent stronger propensity of SPB to progress is actually due to the great number of cases that at diagnosis conceal an occult MM.
A change in functional capacity or dependency in ADL does not appear to be associated with a change in depressive symptoms or psychological well-being among older people living in residential care facilities. These results may offer one possible explanation as to why studies of physical exercise to influence these aspects of mental health have not shown effects in this group of older people.
Significant numbers of patients attending the dental access centre have lifestyle habits that make them vulnerable to oral cancer. Dental access centres could usefully provide opportunistic health messages to patients about risk factors in the development of oral cancer.
There was poor assessment of the patients' CVD risk factors, secondary causes of hypertension and TOD at their first clinic visit for hypertension. The trends observed in the assessment suggest an over-reliance on investigations over clinical examinations.
The results of the current study indicate that when experienced operators perform EUS FNA of pancreatic lesions, on-site adequacy evaluation offers no benefit in reducing the nondiagnostic rate. Optimizing visualization of the sampled material by omitting the preparation of direct smears and rinsing the entire sample in liquid-based media demonstrated a trend toward improving the diagnostic rate.
When there is suspicion of intermittent entropion that is not revealed with existing provocation tests, the TIE-2 is a simple and useful diagnostic tool.
The ITT effect in routine practice is likely to lie somewhere between the ITT and IV estimates from the trial which differ significantly depending on refusal rates. More research is needed on how refusal rates of experimental interventions correlate with refusal rates in routine practice to help answer the question of which analysis more relevant. We also recommend updating the required sample size during the trial as more information about the refusal rate is gained.
These findings indicate that the association of PF-deficiency with increased Lp(a), at least in part, could contribute to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis in these patients.
There was no association between COPD and definite ILA. However, low-dose CT signs of lung fibrosis were also observed in COPD, and their clinical relevance is yet to be determined.
Several risk factors for childhood traumatic dental injuries were found to differ for male and female patients.
The bimodal pattern of mortality indicates that uveal melanoma metastatic development cannot be explained by a continuous growth model. Similar metastasis dynamics have been reported for other tumours, including early breast cancer, for which it supported a paradigm shift to an interrupted growth model, the implications of which are episodes of 'tumour dormancy'. We propose that the concepts of tumour homeostasis, tumour dormancy and enhancement of metastasis growth related to primary tumour removal, convincingly explaining the clinical behaviour of breast cancer, may be used for uveal melanoma as well. To confirm this proposition, a careful analysis of uveal melanoma metastasis dynamics is strongly warranted.
Dermoscopists that come across unclear dermoscopic findings, especially in facial PSL, should ask patients about the use of DHA.
This population-based study demonstrates that surgeons appear to use laparoscopy in a subset of patients at high risk for metastatic disease. The combination of current staging techniques is associated with a high proportion of resectability for patients taken to surgical exploration. With current imaging modalities, selective application of laparoscopy with a dual-phase CT scan as the cornerstone of staging is a sound clinical approach to evaluate pancreatic cancer patients for potential resectability.
Modification in legislation for bioequivalence of antiepileptic drugs is suggested, not only with constraint of AUC0-t 90% CI to 0.90-1.11, but also with limitation of the CV to 15%, as to assure similar variance in pharmacokinetics and diminish the risk of critical plasma-level fluctuation when switching between generic and reference formulations. Although most generics presented differences ≤ 10% in AUC0-t compared to their references, some narrow therapeutic index drugs displayed differences that could be clinically significant after product substitution.
Based on currently available data, overall exposure to metals from EC use is not expected to be of significant health concern for smokers switching to EC use, but is an unnecessary source of exposure for never-smokers. Metal analysis should be expanded to more products and exposure can be further reduced through improvements in product quality and appropriate choice of materials.
The initial presentation of bilateral sinonasal disease can easily lead the doctor into the misdiagnosis of IP. Bony erosion, remodelling, and a widening of the natural orifice of the sinuses on a CT scan are useful signs indicating IP. The correct diagnosis prior to surgery is a determinant of outcome. The use of frozen sections should, however, improve outcome as well. In this study we highlight the high prevalence and relatively low control rate of misdiagnosed IP (pathology undetermined pre-operatively) and hope to remind clinicians that early recognition of the tumour is most beneficial to patients.
these results validate the use of portable D-PPG as a useful screening tool for the diagnosis of clinically suspected lower limb DVT. A positive test requires further confirmation by one of the "gold standard" methods, whereas a negative test effectively excludes DVT.
elderly patients are therefore rarely asked for their opinion prior to intensive care admission. Our results indicate that respect of the decision-making autonomy of elderly subjects in the admission process to an intensive care unit should be reinforced.
Information on the risk of SJS/TEN in drug dictionaries needs improvement to enhance the quality of advice given by general physicians and to raise the understanding of risk by patients.
From these data it appears that while M, Tre, and Tsk differed across time, a CAP (which differentially affected percent of energy derived from carbohydrate) feeding did not differentially affect the thermal and metabolic responses of males during acute cold water immersion.
Size of the nasogastric tubes is a significant factor in predisposing the child to gastroesophageal reflux. Large nasogastric tubes interfere with the clearance of the refluxed acid from the esophagus.
Referring physicians should pay special attention to patients with non-diabetic kidney disease and patients with multiple comorbidities since delayed referral to nephrologists may result in poorer patient-related outcomes. Larger and long-term prospective studies analyzing the long-term consequences of late referral to nephrologists are needed.
This national data assessment shows progression in certain basic pre-hospital care requirements in Thailand. However, it needs regular systematic evaluation and there is still room for improvement of pre-hospital care systems such as increasing coverage, more equitable distribution of the coverage, faster response times, especially for patients with critical code, information system, cost-effectiveness study as well as further specific qualitative researches to guide further development of policy and intervention.
A corridor of double potentials along the roof line and a caudocranial activation sequence along the posterior wall during sinus rhythm can indicate conduction block at the LA roof after PVA isolation.
SLMA can be a suitable alternative to intubation in laparoscopic surgical procedures in a group of selected patients.
(1) The incidence of spina bifida in the city of Al-Madinah Al-Munawarah was similar to that reported from the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia. (2) The consanguinity of the parents was a significant risk factor.
Although knee OA did not alter muscle responses in our study, the type of functional weightbearing perturbation described could be safely used in the physical therapy clinic to help improve balance and stability while decreasing discomfort in older adults with symptomatic knee OA.
Some training programs continue to fail to provide adequate regional anesthesia exposure to train residents fully in these techniques, despite the overall increased use of regional anesthesia.
Surgical varicocelectomy improves the total sperm motility counts especially in patients who have a TMCS more than 5 million and improves the spontaneous pregnancy rates. The improvement in the spontaneous pregnancy rates after varicocelectomy correlates negatively with the duration of infertility. Therefore, duration of infertility should be considered in treating a patient with a varicocele as a cause of infertility.
Current management of ACS in the UK more closely follows the recommendations of the National Service Framework than British or European guidelines. Differences in practice may account for the observed higher event rates in the UK after hospital discharge.
A modification of DIN EN 61331-3 to account for secondary radiation is strongly advised in the case of lead-free materials. In summary, most of the protective lead-free aprons in use should be used with care, particularly for examinations with a high dose.
We confirm the inverse associations between fruit intake and allergic disease in children observed in earlier studies. However, our data also indicate that disease-related modification of consumption contributed to this association.
This study highlights the potential importance of free cancer cell detection in the venous drainage of colorectal cancers as a prognostic indicator and a mode of staging colorectal cancers.
Gender and learning style had no impact on quantitative parameters. Qualitative analysis, however, revealed differences for learning style and further evaluation is warranted to assess the impact on medical education.
We were unable to demonstrate that the "atherogenic state" of preeclampsia is associated with a particular genotype of apo E. Familial studies show that shared genetic and environmental factors are involved in lipid variability. However, owing to the diversity of factors contributing to the development of preeclampsia (fetal and paternal genotypes), these data do not allow to rule-out a possible contribution of maternal apo E to preeclampsia.
Intra-operative LL and OS measures are reliable and accurate when using an imageless calculation algorithm which stores the position of the femoral reference frame in relation to the pelvic coordinate system before and after reconstruction.
The literature largely focuses on the relationship between obesity and health and this is understandable given that many more persons are obese than are underweight. A person who is underweight is about as likely to report poor general health as a person who is obese.
The contrasting results regarding the relationship of major depression with migraine versus other severe headaches suggest that different causes may underlie the co-occurrence of major depression in persons with migraine compared with persons with other severe headaches.
Our results suggest to follow the traditional DPT method to introduce COX-2 inhibitors for finding safe alternatives in all patients with cross-reactive NSAID hypersensitivity before prescription as uncertainty of any predictive factor for a positive response continues. However, these tests should be performed in hospital settings in which emergency equipment and experienced personnel are available.
The choice of vaccination strategy is based on the national history of pertussis infection, the safety of available whole-cell vaccines and the willingness of health authorities to introduce acellular vaccines into routine use. The strategies adopted in the UK and the USA are two contrasting examples of immunization policies developed on the basis of different epidemiological backgrounds. They attest to the various associations between the type of pertussis vaccine and the type of universal vaccination strategies that can be undertaken for successful pertussis control. The introduction of a mandatory policy generally takes place during a period of low vaccination coverage, and is vindicated by the need for a rapid increase in immunization uptake. Countries that have already succeeded in implementing sustainable and high rates of uptake with a voluntary approach are expected to recommend pertussis vaccination, considering this to be the most justifiable policy.
Although GMVs are not for all patients, a relational autonomy approach is useful in drawing attention to the context and structures which may influence their patients' ability to act autonomously. Successful delivery of GMVs requires both patients and providers to negotiate between maintaining confidentiality and an appropriate level of disclosure.
RFCA of VT can be performed with a high degree of success (83%). The long-term outcome of successfully ablated patients is promising, with a 75% relative risk reduction compared with nonsuccessfully ablated patients. During follow-up, only one patient died suddenly, supporting a selective ICD placement approach in patients with hemodynamically stable VT.
There is no study showing that tibial nerve neurotomy has long-lasting effects. The 4 cases reported are an illustration that recurrence of spasticity may occur after neurotomy. These findings have to be taken into account for treatment decision-making and for provision of information to patients.
The output levels of PLDs are capable of reaching levels that could increase the risk for MIHL, and 14% of teenagers in this study reported behavior that puts them at increased risk for hearing loss. However, measured listening levels in the laboratory settings did not correlate well with self-reported typical listening levels. Further, the Listening Habits Questionnaire described in this study may provide a useful research tool for examining the relationship between attitudes and beliefs and listening behavior.
Sleepiness led to an underestimation of the positive bright-light effect on concentration performance. Mood showed only a random effect due to the positive bright-light effect on working memory. Sleepiness and mood could completely be excluded as mediators in the relationship between light exposure and cognitive functioning. This study underlines that psychological well-being of elderly persons is not a critical component in the treatment of bright light on cognitive performance in the night shift workplace. In summary, it becomes evident that bright light has a strong direct and independent effect on cognitive performance, particularly on working memory and concentration.
Higher temperature and farming activity may be strongly associated with the incidence of human WNV infection. Larger studies of more agricultural centers are warranted to determine which environmental factors increase the risk of human infection and how these infections can be prevented.
Within our population, we found that the FAST message identified 88.9% of stroke/TIA patients. The FAST message performed better for ischemic stroke and TIA than for hemorrhagic stroke. Whether the FAST message is easier to recall for the public than the "suddens" message has yet to be determined.
Objective changes in the general sensory function of the tongue correlated with post-operative clinical symptoms experienced by patients. The results of this study support the notion that the chorda tympani nerve confers general sensation from the tongue.
Despite the availability of official and authoritative guidelines, adjuvant treatment prescription for early breast cancer in Lombardy in 1997 was suboptimal, especially in well-defined subgroups of patients.
Our study showed that there is a significant risk of surgical complications after kidney transplantation in obese patients. But ultimately, this does not affect graft survival because there are no more transplantectomies or return to dialysis.
The findings raise methodological concerns about measures of healthcare utilization from household surveys, particularly in the evaluation of health financing interventions.
Implementing smoking status as a vital sign appears to have increased the documentation of tobacco use but had little effect on specific implementation actions. Overall, the findings suggest that more consistent identification of tobacco use alone will not lead to guideline-recommended changes in cessation support actions by clinicians. Greater environmental changes will be needed if tobacco guideline goals are to be achieved.
The diagnostic strategy for suspected leg DVT differs greatly among Italian centers. A relatively high rate of PE was recorded in patients with ICDVT for reasons which are open to debate. Prospective, well designed studies on the clinical risks and the need for diagnosing ICDVT, and the advantages/disadvantages of the two diagnostic procedures are urgently needed.
Refraction had no appreciable effect on the association of blood pressure and retinal vessel diameters or on the AVR. Correction for refraction is important for quantifying absolute retinal vessel caliber, but may not be particularly important in epidemiologic studies investigating the association of generalized retinal arteriolar narrowing and hypertension.
The diagnostic yield of FIT screening using a lowered positivity threshold in combination with an extended screening interval (up to 5 years) may be similar to conventional FIT strategies. This justifies and motivates further research steps in this direction.
SnF(2) in toothpaste may be effective in inhibiting plaque accumulation in the elderly.
Greater PU occurrence among blacks may not result from differential within-facility treatment of blacks versus whites. Rather, blacks are more likely to reside in facilities with poorer care quality. To improve PU care for blacks, efforts should focus on improving the overall quality of care for facilities with high proportion of black residents.
We demonstrated that when parturients undergoing cesarean delivery were maintained in the sitting position for 5 minutes after spinal injection of the local anesthetic, hypobaric bupivacaine resulted in sensory block levels that were higher compared with isobaric and hyperbaric bupivacaine, respectively, during the study period.
Our study shows good reliability using the new generation of infrared tympanic thermometers. We found good agreement between core and infrared tympanic thermometers at the intensive care unit, but the measuring inaccuracy for infrared tympanic thermometers was greater than expected.
Administration of antifungals was not always closely linked to the diagnostic categorisation (colonisation vs. Aspergillosis), being negatively associated with severe COPD (GOLD III + IV) and concomitant treatment with quinolones in patients with Aspergillosis, probably due to the similarity of signs/symptoms between this entity and pulmonary bacterial infections.
Mechanical dyssynchrony in HFpEF does not differ from that of patients with HTN or patients with HFrEF and a narrow QRS. This data raises concerns regarding the role of dyssynchrony in the pathophysiology of HFpEF and thereby the potential usage of CRT in HFpEF.
Priority anticipatory guidance is covered only one third as often when the well-child visit is not conducted by the primary attending. When involving trainees, continuity of care and parental concerns must be emphasized.
The IOP was significantly elevated when the eyeball was against the pillow in the LDP.
The incidence of presumed paradoxical embolism has increased dramatically in the recent past as a consequence of our improved ability to unequivocally detect PFO with associated physiologic shunting. The suspicion of this heretofore "rare" event should be raised, particularly in the young or middle-aged adult diagnosed with an acute thromboembolic event. Until the risk of recurrent ischemic events in the presence of a PFO is better defined, we currently recommend closure of the foramen ovale after a significant or recurrent paradoxical embolus. Otherwise, the selective use of intracaval filters, antiplatelet therapy, and oral anticoagulation remain undefined.
The authors found that some dentists use the Internet to support clinical practice and that it helped dentists adopt new techniques for patient treatment and obtain information on new materials or products.
Our findings demonstrate a significant drop on the fatigue severity scale in MS patients after treatment with amantadine; nevertheless, more studies on a larger scale with longer duration are needed to confirm this finding.
This group of students do not need an adapted course, but instead wish for a realistic nursing course where expectations are managed in an honest way. Basic common sense and good management of nursing courses will help ensure that this motivated group of people achieve their goals with minimum hardship or difficulties.
There is an important relationship between clinical parameters and gait analysis. We have identified the main clinical parameters and combinations of these parameters that lead to severe gait deviations. The strength of the hip extensor, the level of spasticity and the strength of the tibialis posterior were the most important clinical parameters for predicting a severe gait deviation.
Plasma cells are commonly found in the endometria of healthy women and may not represent upper genital tract inflammation.
This retrospective analysis suggests that intraoperative administration of ketorolac decreases the risk of breast cancer relapse compared with other analgesícs.
These data do not support the notion of a clinically useful correlation between brain temperature and ICP.
The ideal time for stent removal likely falls between 4 and 6 weeks following the start of palliative CCRT allowing the temporary stents to relieve dysphagia effectively in patients with unresectable oesophageal carcinoma.
Two years after PTA, patients had less extensive disease than medically treated patients, but this did not translate into a significant advantage in terms of improved walking or quality of life. There are important implications for patient management and future clinical research.
The findings of this study support the hypothesis that vertebral forward slippage of the immature spine occurs following epiphyseal separation and its occurrence is unrelated to disc degeneration.
β-hCG and PAPP-A levels measured during the first trimester are not predictive of subsequent intrapartum fetal compromise within a low-risk population.
Remission according to CDAI and RAPID3R+SJ1, but not DAS28 or RAPID3R, is similar to that of the ACR/EULAR criteria. RAPID3 scores require a complementary careful joint examination for clinical decisions, do not preclude formal joint counts or other indices, and may be useful in busy clinical settings.
Although APOE variants were not confirmed as the risk factor for development of MetS, the APOE alleles were associated with some of the metabolic parameters in young Croatian subjects. The relation of APOE alleles with a concentration of adiponectin and leptin depends on the diet intake.
Treatment in SNFs with historically low rehospitalization causally reduces a patient's likelihood of rehospitalization. Observed differences in rehospitalization rates reflect true differences and are not an artifact of selection.
The development of BETRS has led to markedly improved access and effectiveness of specialist services in the region.
A strong association exists between acute increases in serum creatinine of up to 30% that stabilize within the first 2 months of ACEI therapy and long-term preservation of renal function. This relationship holds for persons with creatinine values of greater than 124 pmol/L (>1.4 mg/dL). Thus, withdrawal of an ACEI in such patients should occur only when the rise in creatinine exceeds 30% above baseline within the first 2 months of ACEI initiation, or hyperkalemia develops, ie, serum potassium level of 5.6 mmol/L or greater.
The survival and neurologic outcome of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest were not different between trauma and medical patients. This result suggests that, under the supervision of senior physicians, active resuscitation after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest is as important in trauma as in medical patients.
Cardiac complications are rare in young patients with Marfan syndrome receiving medical therapy and close clinical follow-up. Sudden death still occurs, and appears more common in patients with a dilated left ventricle. Left ventricular dilation may predispose to alterations of repolarization and fatal ventricular arrhythmias.
All types of enrolled fractures were nearly anatomically reduced. This contradicts the opinion that some "severe" fractures are too unstable to be initially reduced by closed means.
In spite of marked decrease in the number of HUS children died particularly in developed countries, permanent attention must be paid to this disease. Besides early diagnosis, corresponding therapy is necessary. That should be performed at a specialized centre. The elaborated algorithm can be used in the therapy for HUS. This is one of the ways for further decrease of both mortality and chronic morbidity in children suffering from HUS. (Tab. 3, Fig. 1, Ref. 15.).
Kinematically aligned TKA minimized the undesirable contact kinematics of edge loading of the tibial liner, and external rotation and adduction of the tibial component on the femoral component during standing and kneeling, which suggests an optimistic prognosis for durable long-term function.
High H. pylori density was associated with elevated serum nitrate-plus-nitrite (a marker of nitric oxide production in gastric mucosa). Increased apoptosis and abnormal gastric cell turnover are likely results.
The result of the present study shows the safety and efficacy of the classical Cox-Maze III procedure. With the advantage of proven long-term efficacy, demonstrable safety and avoidance of costly technology, the Cox-Maze III should not be discounted as a treatment option in patients because of its perceived complexity.
Our pilot study suggests that OSA is associated with periodontitis. Further research is needed to elucidate the nature of this association.
For the evaluation of patients with acute flank pain, UCT is an excellent modality with high sensitivity and specificity. In near future it may replace EU.
GBS colonization in a previous pregnancy is not associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes in the current pregnancy.
Patients with MRI confirmed symptomatic lumbar disc herniations and MC report significantly lower levels of pain reduction after a lumbar nerve root block compared to patients without MC.
The findings provide highly detailed insights into desk-based sitting habits, highlighting large proportions of time spent sitting at desks, but with frequent interruptions.
After-hours performance of elective free flap surgery was demonstrated to be associated with increased risk of flap-related complications.
Recommendations to use friendship as a basis for classroom grouping for cognitive tasks may facilitate performance of some pairings, but may also inhibit the performance of others. This is shown very clearly with regard to gender. Some of the difference in cognitive task performance may be explained by distinct, cultural (and social capital) orientations to friendship activities, with girls integrating school and educational considerations into friendship, and boys excluding school and educational considerations.
Two novel protein-truncating mutations in the NLRP7 gene were found to be associated with familial recurrent hydatidiform mole. Mutations in the NLRP7 gene causing recurrent biparental hydatidiform mole may also be associated with other forms of recurrent reproductive wastage.
The results indicate that dietary ALA increases liver metastases in BOP-initiated pancreatic cancer.
Nuclear morphometry in CCLs confirms nuclear size as the key parameter in the assessment of nuclear atypia. Whether it can be potentially used as an adjunctive tool depends on the establishment of appropriate cut-offs.
PA remains the "gold standard" for diagnosis of PE in critically ill surgical patients. CTPA should be explored further before being universally accepted. Clinical criteria are unreliable for detecting PE in this population and therefore a high index of suspicion should be maintained.
Our data suggest that low pHi during the first 24 hours from trauma seems to be a good predictor for the development of organ failure.
When feasible, MV repair remains the most optimal method of correcting mitral regurgitation during concomitant AVR. Continued efforts to improve MV repair rates in this setting seem warranted.
The findings emphasize the importance of the encounter between the GP and the patient for prudent antibiotic prescribing. Furthermore, the importance of an appropriate organization of primary care, which promotes continuity and encourages professional autonomy, is demonstrated.
The use of pelvic CT and bone scans for clinical staging in patients with a PSA level of<or = 20 ng/mL should not be advocated because they have a very low yield and are not cost effective. We question the role of a modified pelvic lymphadenectomy for staging purposes, either by an open or laparoscopic procedure, because the yield of positive diagnoses is very low.
The higher prevalence of unhealthy lifestyle activities among Roma seem to contribute to these inequalities in cardiovascular diseases morbidity and mortality in comparison with the majority population.
Antithrombotic management in AF is well implemented in Polish conditions, but we show the lack of pattern concerning who is being treated with OAC and ASA when it comes to the risk of stroke and bleeding.
In about one-third of patients, CP also involves the thoracic aorta and the epiaortic arteries, which supports the hypothesis of a systemic inflammatory disease of the large arteries.
The incidence of breast cancer in patients referred to SBU with mastalgia as an isolated symptom is extremely low. Patients under 35 years of age, with mastalgia as an isolated symptom do not require breast imaging and have a sufficiently low risk of breast cancer that they may be suitable for management in the primary care setting.
Much of the racial variation in thrombolytic administration could be accounted for by differences in clinical presentation, an issue that requires further study.
The CSP did not flag discharges with significantly higher rates of explicit process problems than unflagged discharges. Various initiatives throughout the USA use techniques similar to the CSP to identify complications of care. Based on these CSP findings, such approaches should be evaluated cautiously.
In cases of explicit euthanasia requests in Belgium, the consultation procedure of another physician by the attending physician is not optimal and can be improved. Training and putting at disposal consultants through forums such as LEIF seems able to improve this situation. Adding stipulations in the law about the necessary competencies and tasks of consulting physicians may additionally incite improvement. Irrespective of whether euthanasia is a legal practice within a country, similar services may prove useful to also improve quality of consultations in various other difficult end-of-life decision-making situations.
Percutaneous iliosacral screw fixation is a useful technique in the management of vertically unstable pelvic fractures, but a vertical sacral fracture should make the surgeon more wary of fixation failure and loss of reduction.
Vmax and Stime could be used to evaluate wheelchair skills and to create a new scale, whereas Vspont is the least appropriate of these measurements to describe wheelchair skills.
Apathy is a main feature of moderate to severe depressive illness in elderly patients and related to the negative symptoms of the disorder. Further studies should include less severely depressed patients and investigate the relation between depression severity and apathy.
Our results indicate that similar criteria for MetS may be applied across Hispanic/Latino ancestry groups but call into question the role of HDL-C in classifying the MetS in Hispanics/Latinos.
Routine TZ biopsies following 12-core systematic biopsies are not warranted for the detection of TZ cancer because of their low additional yield.
Our findings indicate that the peliotic lesion in the spleen may be mediated by immune-complex deposits.
The similarity between prehospital and ED vital signs, and lack of association between EMS interval and physiological deterioration, may support a strategy of direct transportation of TBI cases to specialist centers. Further research is necessary to identify patients at risk from deterioration during bypass and to investigate effects on mortality.
Antenatal corticosteroid may be associated with a reduction in birth weight and head circumference, independent of other major predictive factors. The reduction in head circumference persists even after controlling for the reduction in birth weight. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown.
Our analysis of a frail elderly Finnish population shows that the availability of informal care considerably reduces public care expenditure. Therefore, informal care should be taken into account when formulating policies for long-term care. The process whereby families choose to provide care for their elderly relatives has a significant impact on long-term care expenditure.
For all parameters, hybrid fixation with an interference screw provided superior structural results. No relevant disadvantages of undersized screws could be found. Graft damage due to abrasion at the edge of the femoral bone tunnel was reduced by use of an interference screw. The posterior screw placement seems favorable.
Both clinical and radiological outcomes improved (the average length of IISI in the cervical spinal cord became shorter) after CDA. Therefore, CDA is a safe and effective option for patients even when there is IISI on the preoperative T2-weighted MRI.
The methacholine bronchial provocation test is more sensitive than a sport specific exercise field test for identifying athletes with asthma and/or bronchial hyperresponsiveness.
Regional breast cancer is a curable disease in some resected patients.
PI is mandatory for clinically symptomatic patients but it is safe to waive it in clinically asymptomatic patients, even if the meningioma was large in size.
Refining the current N-classification for esophageal cancer according to the extent of LN metastasis, rather than by number alone, might be a better means of staging that could subgroup patients more effectively and result in different rates of survival.
IBS is more frequent before diagnosis in people with bacterial gastroenteritis presenting to their primary care physician than in community controls. Studies that examine the rate of IBS after bacterial gastroenteritis need to carefully exclude people with prior IBS in a systematic way.
The prevalence of nutritional depletion assessed by NRI and albumin was increased with longer LOS. Albumin alone underestimated nutritional risk. Severe nutritional depletion by NRI was significantly associated with LOS>or = 11 days in Geneva and Berlin patients. Nutrition screening should take place at hospital admission to determine nutritional risk and risk for longer LOS.
A single dose of 300 mg of gabapentin reduced the VAS score during the first 24 hours postoperatively in patients undergoing shoulder arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, without significant side effects when compared with placebo. However, the fentanyl consumption did not differ between the gabapentin and placebo groups.
In this large cohort, all infants who appeared well on admission and had normal clinical, laboratory and imaging studies had benign (non-bacterial) disease. In an infant who appears well and has no evidence of bacterial disease, it is reasonable to observe the infant and withhold lumbar puncture. Prospective studies should be carried out to confirm this approach.
CAS and MVP seem to be significantly associated in patients undergoing consecutive ultrasonographic screening.
In patients with CF, on average, pulmonary exacerbations affect physical HRQOL more than psychosocial HRQOL. Being hospitalized for exacerbations is associated with improvement in psychosocial HRQOL after exacerbations, whereas not being hospitalized is associated with deterioration.
Laser supraglottoplasty, in its different modalities, is a safe and effective treatment for all types of laryngomalacia, but children with associated neurologic or anatomic anomalies will have a more complicated immediate and short term course, as well as a significant incidence of failure. Gastroesophageal reflux is an important associated condition that requires investigation in these patients, and in severe cases will merit surgical procedures to manage. The high incidence of associated neuromuscular anomalies suggests that this component has an important role in the etiology of laryngomalacia.
Appendiceal colic is a clinical diagnosis. It is anticipated that patients with cramping abdominal pain associated with McBurney's point tenderness could undergo less preoperative workup and expedited resolution of the problem in the future.
These data indicate that in healthy elderly men, improvements in VO(2peak) can occur without compromising the regulation of HR, AP, NE, and PV during orthostatic stress.
Patients with FM are able to learn to perform a work task and a home-care task with less muscle activity in trapezius pars descendens after a rehabilitation programme. Decreased pain intensity and perception of exertion may indicate that these two experiences accompany the decrease in muscle activity.
Applicant rank number and rank group did not correlate with performance of this otolaryngology residency cohort as assessed by faculty evaluation, coresident evaluation, in-service exam score, or selection for chief resident or the annual teaching award. Resident selection committees should consider reallocating manpower hours from creating rank order to recruiting applicants and selecting interview candidates.
Our study showed that the "NWH effect" increased the door-to-needle time. The patients treated out of hours did not have a worse outcome.
Pain tolerance had a significant relationship with stress response during intubation and skin incision. We may initially use pain tolerance to direct opioid usage in the future.
In hospitalized patients with minor/moderate illness severity, laparoscopic myotomy for achalasia showed comparable or better outcomes than ED. For major/extreme illness severity, dilation showed comparable or better profile for hospitalized achalasia patients. These results highlight the importance and impact of illness severity on outcomes of achalasia patients.
Based on AIS 2008, ISS and NISS were not reliable for summarising anatomic injury severity in this study. This result indicates a limitation in their use as benchmarking tools for trauma system performance.
This preliminary study supports an association between surgery for IBD and development of symptomatic lung disease, particularly bronchiectasis, in susceptible patients. The pulmonary manifestations of IBD in some patients may only become clinically significant after surgery and the withdrawal of medical treatment.
Small bowel perforation has low mortality and complication rates if it is treated earlier than 24 hours after injury. The principle of "rushing to the operation suite" for a stable blunt abdominal trauma patients without detailed systemic examination is not justified. The priority of treatment for the small bowel perforation should be lower than the limb-threatening injuries. Diagnostic peritoneal lavage provides high sensitivity and specificity rates for the diagnosis of small bowel perforation if a specially designed positive criterion is applied.
This study provides new evidence, using rigorous epidemiological methods and controlling for multiple confounding variables, of an association between periodic vehicle inspections and three-monthly tire pressure checks and reduced risk of car crash injury.
Dexamethasone does not interfere with the cytotoxic action of cisplatin or docetaxel in the investigated SCCHN cell lines.
Over 50% attendances (21/41) for 'normal' results could have been avoided by the use of a directed informative letter. Outpatient clinics are an important resource whose usage must be optimised.
Total DCIS detection rates increase with age, mostly because of an increase in high- and intermediate-grade DCIS, which are precursor lesions that carry a higher risk for transition to more aggressive invasive breast cancer than low-grade DCIS.
Despite its better sensitivity compared with CT, SPECT performed without the acetazolamide test provides no additional clinically useful information on the vascular risk factors and etiology in TIA patients.
The results of the current study showed that the sildenafil treatment can be effective in preventing tissue damage and oxidative stress induced by the ischemia-reperfusion created in rat ovaries.
Rates of residual CCA in liver explants and recurrences after transplantation are comparable for patients with and without pretreatment pathological confirmation of CCA and attest to the accuracy of clinical diagnostic criteria. Pretreatment pathological confirmation of CCA is desirable but should not be a requirement for treatment.
These findings suggest that rural adolescents are at risk of delivery complications and are less likely to have a normal vaginal delivery. More research is required into obstetric and birth outcomes for the rural adolescent population.
The sTSH test alone, and not the combination of sTSH and FT4 tests, should be ordered in most outpatients. An FT4 test should not be routinely ordered if the sTSH result is normal; at our institution this approach would obviate the need for at least half of the FT4 tests performed each year.
There is a view that the present BJGP is not relevant to the non-academic GP. This is probably due to style rather than content. Simple comparisons with a weekly multi-disciplinary journal may not be valid. The style could be updated to improve retention of information and to highlight areas of particular relevance. Readers are satisfied with the core content of the BJGP but want it to expand to include humour, clinical reviews and medical politics, for example. There is no evidence that the BJGP is more appealing to the academic GP. This study supports an expanded BJGP with an improved style.
The principal pregnancy complication that led to preterm delivery significantly influenced predischarge morbidity but not the predischarge survival of live-born infants.
In an open-access system, a high proportion of esophageal pH studies are done for indications not consistent with published guidelines, particularly among the examinations not requested by gastrointestinal specialists. Further education is still needed on the appropriate use of esophageal pH monitoring and management of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
The phenomenon of menstrual synchrony may be related to various factors. The results failed to demonstrate any significant difference between synchronised and non-synchronised subjects in detecting the steroid by sense of smell. However, the odours associated with menstrual blood or vaginal discharge might have an affect on menstrual synchrony.
LDLT using a right lobe graft resulted in a significant reduction of SV at 6 months after surgery, but there were no significant differences between recipients who received different sized right lobe liver grafts.
Brief questionnaires identified children with multiple antecedents of schizophrenia who displayed significantly more involuntary dyskinetic movement abnormalities than children without antecedents. The presence of PLEs and dyskinesias could reflect early disruption of striatal dopamine circuits.
Despite the original claims in its derivation paper, the ORBIT score was not superior to HAS-BLED for predicting major bleeding and death in a "real world" oral anticoagulated AF population. (Circ J 2016; 80: 2102-2108).
We conclude that basing CsA dosing on CsA profiles could help to avoid some early episodes of rejection without increasing the risk of nephrotoxicity.
In patients suffering from CKD, intrarenal resistance indices are independently associated with cardiovascular risk score and systemic vascular disease as well as with aetiology and stage of CKD. This may explain their strong association with both impaired renal outcome and death.
These findings confirm the importance of considering the variability in impulsive processes to understand why some (but not all) men high in homophobia have homosexual interest. These findings reinforce the theoretical basis for elaborating a dual-process model for behaviors in the sexual context.
Recent trends in smoking cessation explain only a small percentage of the increase in body mass while the trends in physical activity would have predicted a small decrease in the prevalence of obesity, contrary to the observed trends. By exclusion, an increase in total energy intake, is the most likely explanation for the observed trends.
A high percentage of IBD patients are exposed to high CED. Radiation-free cross-sectional examinations, such as MRI, should be used, especially in young patients, those who have undergone prior surgery and those with severe IBD.
The mean volume of the delineated glandular breast tissue based on CT was significantly larger compared to the volume based on CTMR. For patients with a CVS ≥ 4, the mean CIs of the LC were higher compared to CVS<4 for volumes delineated on both CT as well as CTMR images. In our study cohort no significant differences between the CIs of the CTV breast and the LC delineated on CTMR co-registered images were found compared to the CIs on CT images only. Adding MR images does not seem to improve consistency of the delineation of the CTV breast and the LC, even though the volumes were copied from CT images. Since we included only ten patients, caution should be taken with regard to the results of our study.
There was a twofold decrease in survival following out-of-hospital cardiac arrest to discharge in patients aged 80 or more when compared with the reference group in this suburban county setting. However, resuscitation for community-dwelling elders aged 65-89 is not futile. These data support that out-of-hospital resuscitation of elders up to age 90 years is not associated with a universal dismal outcome.
There is no difference in outcome between in situ and non-reversed vein grafting. Absence of statistical difference between the two procedures may be mainly due to the routine use of angioscopic quality control.
A 5% or 10% incremental regimen may have similar therapeutic efficacy.
Although elevated NT-proBNP level detected heart failure with high sensitivity, NT-proBNP level did not assist in the diagnosis of acute myocardial ischaemia. These findings indicate that the major determinant of elevated NT-proBNP level on presentation with suspected ACS was underlying cardiac dysfunction rather than acute myocardial ischaemia. This suggests that NT-proBNP measurement in patients with a suspected cardiac reason for presentation to the Emergency Department may identify a previously unrecognized group of patients without acute ischaemia who may nevertheless benefit from further investigation of cardiac function.
When healthcare providers are assessing cancer risk and making screening recommendations, they should take into account that among foreign-born patients, and especially nonwhite foreign-born patients, self-reported family history of cancer (FHC) may misrepresent their cancer risk. Failure to account for low rates of reporting FHC among immigrants could inadvertently contribute to existing disparities in cancer screening and use of genetic testing by immigrants and ethnic minorities.
The results from this study indicate that when loaded dynamically in saline, stainless steel implant components have a greater susceptibility to corrosion than titanium. Furthermore, the galvanic potential between the dissimilar metals does not cause a discernible effect on the corrosion of either. Although the mixture of titanium alloy with stainless steel is not advocated, the results of this study suggest that galvanic corrosion is less pronounced in SS-Ti mixed interfaces than in all stainless steel constructs.
The risk of developing anemia from heavy menstrual bleeding is substantially increased at a menstrual blood loss level of 120 ml, and not, like the current definition of menorrhagia suggests, at 80 ml.
Provision of LLIN and WF could be a cost-saving and practical method to defer time to ART eligibility in the context of highly resource-constrained environments experiencing donor fatigue for HIV/AIDS programs.
Balloon angioplasty for native coarctation yields low reintervention probability in adult patients. Despite occurrence of angiographically established intimal tearing, aortic dissection and aneurysm formation were not encountered.
Obesity is a significant problem for high school football players. Pediatricians should consider the context of football playing in assessing long-term health risks for these young men.
Neither preexisting diabetes nor GDM was independently associated with increased risk of antenatal depression.
Reduced PPARγ could be added to the factors responsible for translating the metabolic state among psoriatic patients. PPARγ agonists can present an adjuvant therapeutic tool in treatment of psoriatics with MS.
There is an association between AST and improved RFS or OAS for breast cancer patients with T1a tumors.
Temperature decrease in the filtering bleb provides information about its function. Because of the easy handling and reproducible measurements, thermography using Tomey TG 1000 may be a useful tool in the evaluation of filtering bleb function.
Subclinical hypothyroidism can be a 'laboratory-induced' condition. This is an undesirable situation in regard to the clinical implications such a diagnosis can have for patients.
NAFLD is extremely common in people with type 2 diabetes and is mainly associated with uncontrolled diabetes. CIMT values as cardiovascular risk assessment were found to be significantly higher in diabetic patients regardless degree of hepatosteatosis.
While previous studies on the association between PTB and PI use have generally considered all PIs the same, our results would indicate a possible role of ritonavir boosting as a risk factor for PTB. Further work is needed to understand the pathophysiologic mechanisms involved, and to identify the safest ARV regimens to be used in pregnancy.
The equal contribution of MT/V5/EBA and inferior parietal lobule during the observation of movements the gymnasts were able or unable to practice suggests respectively that physical provisional incapacity does not interfere with the perceptual processing of body shape and motion information, and that motor expertise may prevent the decay of sensorimotor representations. Higher activations in the cerebellum may suggest that this structure plays a role in dissociating perceived physically feasible movements from those that are provisionally unfeasible.
We propose several hypotheses to explain how this specific combination of mutations may rescue the normal proteolytic activity of calpain-3, resulting in an exceptionally benign phenotype.
Retrospective sterility testing of 99mTc generator eluate confirmed the validity of our departmental protocol for radiopharmaceutical preparation. Sterility testing has become part of our quality control program.
Mirroring ENX, HMGB1 signaling blockade reduces LEU recruitment, cerebrovascular permeability, and cerebral edema following TBI. ENX further reduced lung edema indicating a multifaceted effect beyond HMGB1 blockade. Further study is needed to determine how ENX may play a role in blunting HMGB1 signaling in brain injury patients.
the hepatobiliary dysfunction in patients treated with both TPN and CsA was no more severe than associated with TPN alone.
Elastic properties of the prestenotic aorta of patients with coarctation seem to be impaired primarily, even in neonates, and remain unchanged early after successful operation. Surgical correction does not resolve inborn pathology of the prestenotic aortic vascular bed.
Curcumin appears to have no significant protective effect on the haemodynamic or tubular glomerular functions when measured as early as 3 days following reversible ureteric obstruction despite the amelioration in some of the indicators of renal injury.
The restrospective study did not prove the obesity to be a risk factor in cardiosurgical procedures. On the contrary, it suggested the BMI of less than 20 kg/m2 to be a risk factor.
These pilot data show a nonsignificant trend suggesting that DCT is expedited by assignment of senior CCTNs to EDs and provides direction for further study.
Presenting features currently noted in the Ministry of Health's health education resource material are appropriate. Public health specialists dealing with the media should ensure that appropriate messages are incorporated into media reports. A greater use of the term 'meningococcal disease' by both public health agencies and media would convey to the public the message that this disease has a spectrum of presenting features, with those of septicaemia more common, but also indicating an even greater need for urgency of action than with 'classical' meningitic features.
IIEF erectile domain scores and nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity measurements are weakly associated, and the clinical utility of one test to predict the other is limited. However, because of the differences in the measured outcomes (perception of erectile function vs physiological capacity), a weak association does not disqualify either test's individual utility.
Menopausal status played a very important role in determining HER2 and PgR status in ER(+) breast cancer patients. HER2 was independently inversely associated with PgR only in the postmenopausal women with ER(+) breast cancers but not in the premenopausal ones.
This study highlights the significance of monitoring cardiac functions in newborns with HIE. ECG changes and serum Troponin I level at 72 h after birth are likely to have significant predictive value in the assessment of mortality in HIE. Further studies will provide additional data for the long-term prognostic value of cardiac functions in this disorder.
Publication of a trial demonstrating large mortality reductions using small tidal volume was associated with significant reductions in tidal volume delivered to patients with ALI/ARDS. However, wide variation in practice persists, and the proportion of patients receiving tidal volumes within recommended limits (<or =8 mL/kg) remains modest.
This first Irish F.A.S.T. campaign had an initial impact on ED attendance of patients with stroke symptoms. However, the campaign effects were not sustained in the long term. Results indicate that prehospital delay in accessing acute stroke services is a complex process with involvement of factors other than stroke knowledge and intention to call 911.
Visual perceptual ability should be assessed in children with poor math and/or reading achievement.
We were unable to demonstrate any significant advantage for the use of anterior titanium interbody cages over the use of morselized rib graft in the surgical management of Scheuermann's kyphosis. Given the not inconsiderable cost and the need for posterior chevron osteotomies when interbody cages are used, we have now reverted to our previous practice of using morselized rib graft at each intervertebral level.
Despite epidemiological differences between European countries, the discriminative power of EuroSCORE was good in Spain and excellent in all other countries. The system, developed from a merged European database, can therefore be used to assess improvement in quality of care achieved by surgeons and institutions as well as for international European comparison in adult heart surgery.
Using the combination of oesophageal pressure, respiratory flow and movement and oximetry for the diagnosis of mild SDB is not cost-effective, because of its poor diagnostic accuracy. New devices having alternative means to predict arousal and respiratory effort variation should be evaluated for cost-effectiveness.
Duct localization with dMRG was possible with the same reliability as with CGal. Thus, dMRG may have the potential to become an alternative method to CGal.
Dendritic cells capture (foreign) antigens after entry into the affected tissues and initiate immune responses acting as a matrix on which antigen-specific T and B cells interact. The described vascular features are indicative of antigen-mediated vasculitic changes in LS.
Although SWL is generally accepted as the first treatment option for ureteral stones because of its non-invasive nature, PL with ureteroscopy seems to be a good alternative with the advantage of higher success rates and quick stone clearance. Especially when we take the importance of quick stone removal into account for larger ureteral stones, which are more likely to have obstruction, impaction, or infection, we believe that PL may be chosen as the first line treatment rather than SWL for stones larger than 10 mm.
Reliability of the DIS scores for the inexperienced junior and senior PTs was sufficient in comparison with scores from the experienced raters in the previous study, indicating that the DIS can be used by inexperienced PTs new to discriminating between dystonia and choreoathetosis, and also that its reliability is not dependent on clinical expertise. However, based on the measurement errors and questionnaire data, familiarity with operational definitions of dystonia and choreoathetosis is crucial to improve scoring reliability.
Our findings suggest that the amount of nasal hair providing a nose filtration function has a protective effect on the risk of developing asthma in SR patients. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on this subject in the literature.
The goal for a good clinical outcome of patients with virtual ileostomy is a strict postoperative follow-up focused on fever onset and quality of drainage discharge. In our experience virtual ileostomy is a good tool to avoid open ostomy at time of primary colorectal or coloanal anastomosis in a good number of cases.
The placement of a double J catheter reduces complications related to ureteral reimplantation without increasing the morbidity associated with their use.
Our study indicates that Jacobsson's and Christensen&Groth's equations designed for adults are also applicable in determining the GFR with Tc-99m-DTPA in children and adolescents. The algorithms applied for age-independent SPSM with Tc-99m-MAG3 appears to be applicable to SPSM with Tc-99m-DTPA in children, adolescents and adults, but the single age-independent equation with Tc-99m-DTPA will need further investigations.
Metastasectomy in patients with Stage IV melanoma may improve long-term survival. The true therapeutic benefit, if any, of metastatectomy needs to be determined by a randomized trial.
Most hemodynamic and geometric features in a commonly used elastase-induced rabbit saccular aneurysm model are qualitatively and quantitatively similar to those seen in large numbers of human cerebral aneurysms.
Early repair of TOF within the 1st year of life can be recommended, because mortality is lower than in patients treated at a higher age. There seems no significant difference in the reintervention rate between patients treated within the 1st year of life or later.
Taking triplicate readings on two visits, possibly separated by just a few days, could be a minimal strategy for assessing adequately the mean BP and the prevalence of hypertension at the population level. A sound strategy is important for assessing reliably the burden of hypertension in populations.
In the ED setting there may be a tradeoff between increased participation with SAQ versus better data quality with ACASI. Future studies of novel approaches to maximize the use of ACASI in the ED setting are needed.
Sildenafil citrate plus visual sexual stimulation is not reliable as CIS to make accurate interpretation of penile vascular status using CDU. On the other hand, in some cases suspected of psychogenic ED after detailed sexual history, sildenafil might be tried as an initial step of the functional evaluation with CDU in order to prevent prolonged erection risk with intracavernosal injection of vasoactive agents.
There was slow uptake of the NMDS in this region in the year following its introduction. Although major parameters required for staging were more consistently reported, ulceration and microsatellites were less frequently reported.
These data indicate that intraoperative ultrasonography of the ascending aorta with simple modifications in operative technique reduces the stroke rate in CABG.
Viabahn revealed similar short-term primary and secondary patencies but lower mid-term primary patency. It provides a good alternative therapy to pAKB.
Illness attribution influences treatment assignment to CBT and PHT. However, factors other than illness attribution for depression affect a treatment choice of IPT.
Cholangiocytes of cirrhotic rats appear to be more tolerant to ischemia of bile duct than non-cirrhotic rats. This may be due to the protective role of arterioportal fistulas.
Most patients with adenomatous polyps in the right colon showed no synchronic adenomas on the left side. Lesions on the right side would have gone undetected if the individuals undergoing CRC screening had been explored with proctosigmoidoscopy.
Our findings suggest that physical violence increases the risk of vaginal bleeding in pregnancy. This result should encourage studies on whether intervention in violent relationships can reduce the risk of vaginal bleeding and other pregnancy complications.
Pharmacists play an important role in counseling patients about prescription and nonprescription drugs. There is a need to educate patients on how to locate and evaluate DI on the Internet.
Prior abdominal surgery was not associated with a statistically significant increase in overall operating time, robotic assist time, margin positivity, or incidence of complications in patients undergoing RALP. Robotic prostatectomy can be safely and satisfactorily performed in patients who have had a wide variety of prior abdominal surgery types.
CDUS is a valuable instrument to assist clinicians in distinguishing OA from IA of the knee joint, but nevertheless should always be interpreted within the clinical context.
More scars were found in the present study than in previous research with formerly depressed adults. This is consistent with the hypothesis that early-onset depression is a more pernicious form of the disorder that may impact adolescents more severely than adults.
Although prophylactic daclizumab with triple immunosuppressive protocol including MMF have drastically reduced the incidence of acute rejections, the graft and patient survival are unchanged in this long-term follow up.
Patients who required and were capable of diligent glucose management, which is invasive, expensive and time-consuming, were no more likely to use medications to control lipids or blood pressure. Preventative care for patients with diabetes may be too focused on glycemic control, and may be neglecting the management of other cardiovascular risk factors.
Our study highlights the difficulty of extrapolating from intraspecific studies to understand the genetic basis of interspecific adaptive phenotypic evolution, even with a gene whose structure-function relationships are as well understood as MC1R as confounding variation make clear genotype/phenotype associations difficult at the macroevolutionary scale. However, the identification of substitutions in the black and black-necked swan that are known to be associated with melanic phenotypes, suggests Cygnus may be another example where there appears to be convergent evolution at MC1R. This study therefore provides a novel example where previously described intraspecific genotype/phenotype associations occur at the macroevolutionary level.
There is no important association between carrying the apolipoprotein epsilon 4 allele and sustaining a concussion. At this time, we do not recommend preseason genetic testing for varsity athletes as a mechanism for targeting prevention strategies.
Most of the elderly subjects had no severe problems with TMD-related symptoms, but 12% of the 70-year-old women reported some, rather great or severe problems. The marked gender difference at age 70 had disappeared in the 80-year-old group. The prevalence was lower among the 80- compared with the 70-year-old subjects of both sexes. The results support the comorbidity between TMD-related symptoms and general health problems.
Transvaginal sonography can be used to determine ovarian status in hens. It offers the ability to make repeated examinations on the same hen to monitor early changes in the ovary associated with ovarian cancer.
Rapid seasonal decline in resistant AOM-causing pneumococci occurred only in Jewish children, among whom a marked prescribing seasonality was noted, and not in Bedouin children, among whom prescription was less seasonal. The rapid seasonal decrease in resistance associated with markedly reduced antibiotic use suggests that drug-resistant pneumococci may pay a fitness cost.
SVV is a significant independent predictor of blood loss ≥ 700 mL during donor hepatectomy, suggesting that low SVV may provide useful information on intraoperative bleeding in donors undergoing right hepatectomy.
Evidence is provided that the risk of secondary malignant involvement of genital organs in female cystectomy specimens is low. This low risk together with the low risk of primary cancers of genital organs in this group of patients does not strongly support the routine removal of uninvolved gynecologic organs during radical cystectomy in women.
A majority of the ACL injured knees had a cortical depression fracture, which was associated with larger BML volumes. This indicates strong compressive forces to the articular surface and cartilage at the time of injury, which may constitute an additional risk factor for later knee osteoarthritis development.
In contrast to its clinical value, sociotherapy has lost importance in psychiatric research. Multidisciplinary collaboration is required to enhance sociotherapy in mental health care research.
Bipolar patients requiring in-patient care in this service experience severe disruption to their lives over prolonged periods.
A low expression of Cx 26 and Cx 32 mRNAs in HCC tissues is predictive of postoperative recurrence of HCCs.
Our results suggest that inhibins A and B are not useful markers and that HCG determination still remains the most useful marker for diagnosis and follow-up of placental tumours.
Our results, along with results from other series, suggest that TVD can be used effectively and safely for closure of certain VSDs.
Patients with dipstick-positive haematuria should be re-assessed by urine microscopy before referral. As only 1.4% of patients had a malignant pathology (all noninvasive), microscopic haematuria should be regarded as a separate entity from macroscopic haematuria, and such patients do not need to be referred urgently.
Pelvic nodes irradiation did not statistically improve EFS or OS in the whole population but may be beneficial in selected low- and intermediate-risk prostate cancer patients treated with exclusive radiation therapy.
Absolute curve correction improved most with all pedicle screw and screw and wire constructs, but, when compared to bending films, the number of fixation points is more important than fixation type for curve correction. Although SRS scores improved the most in those with all screw constructs, the significance of this improvement is uncertain, and the SRS scores did not relate to whether curve correction was more or less than the bend films.
Bronchoplastic resection is a safe operation in patients with carcinoid tumours and should be the reference for treatment.
Prior pharmacotherapy did not increase success rates of alarm therapy in our MNE patients.
BC grafts provide a scaffold for the neoformation of a three-layered vascular wall exhibit attractive properties for their use in future TEBV programs for cardiovascular surgery.
Alarm times surrogates offer important advantages over analytical performance estimates.
Smoking exacerbated the effects of both TC and HDLC on CHD, although no interaction between smoking and TC or HDLC existed for either of the subtypes of stroke.
The MTHFR 677TT genotype was associated with marginally reduced risk of MA in our older population. Our simulation illustrated how even modest selective survival might obscure the apparent effect of a genetic or other risk factor in older populations. We speculate that some of the heterogeneity previously observed for this particular genetic variant may be due to age range differences in the studied populations.
Approximately one-third of surgical NEC cases in our system occurred after a transfusion. We speculate that a target area for reducing the prevalence of posttransfusion NEC involves feeding practices immediately before and during RBC transfusion.
Metastasis to lymph nodes along the right colic artery occurred in approximately 10% of the patients with transverse cancer, indicating the need for great care in deciding the extent of segmental resection for these patients.
We suggest that PC and MPV may be inflammatory markers in brucellosis.
Close attention to architectural features in both smears and cell blocks should allow most well differentiated HCCs to be diagnosed by FNA cytology. A reticulin stain should be part of the routine assessment of cell blocks. Cancer (Cancer Cytopathol)
Considering patients who use an IUD for a minimum of 2 years, this study found no evidence of harm occurring in those who attended infrequently compared to frequent attenders. If these data from a single practice are generalisable, after an initial check following insertion, women can be asked to attend as needed and only be recalled for smears and at the end of the life of the IUD.
Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair without acromioplasty may be as reliable and useful as conventional rotator cuff repair with acromioplasty. Thus, acromioplasty cannot be recommended as a routine technique in every rotator cuff repair.
Acute IS diabetic patients with PCI who were treated with IVT had similar outcomes to patients without such history, with no increase in the rates of SICH. Thus, they should not be excluded from IVT only on the basis of DM and PCI.
Despite the 2011 news report, only a very small percentage of thoracic CT scans nationwide are done both without and with contrast. Moreover, that percentage dropped by almost one-third from 2006 to 2011, suggesting that the practice is declining. The figure of 4.2% can be used as a benchmark against which to judge radiology facilities in the future.
The most likely explanation for the lack of effects of the intervention is that the baseline standard of hygiene at the DCCs was probably too high for the intervention to demonstrate significant results, but recall bias cannot be excluded. Even though hygiene is important for minimizing the spread of microbes at DCCs, other risk factors need to be studied.
The infusion regimen described herein resulted in therapeutic levels in the majority of patients that correlated inversely with body mass index. However most levels fell within the lower range of what many studies consider "therapeutic" suggesting that maintenance infusion rates of at least 2-2.5 g/hour would be more appropriate. This would be particularly true in patients with body mass indices exceeding 30, where subtherapeutic levels occurred most frequently. The study's limited power prevents conclusions on outcomes but what is of interest is that eclamptic convulsions did not correlate with either body mass index or circulating plasma magnesium levels.
Chronic health problems tend to have longer duration EoCs, proportionately, across populations. This result is expected, but we found important  similarities and differences which make defining a problem as chronic on the basis of time rather difficult. The ratio of incidence to prevalence rates has potential to categorise health problems into acute or chronic categories, at different ratio thresholds (such as 20, 30 or 50%). It seems  to perform well in this study of three family practice populations, and is proposed to the scientific community for further evaluation.
In this rather small population additional usage of CAD led to a lower rate of unnecessary biopsies. The observed decrease of recommended unnecessary biopsies due to the usage of CAD in the screening group suggests a potential financial benefit by using CAD as diagnostic aid.
This study demonstrates the use of novel prediction models based on gait speed testing to predict early home discharge and to identify those patients at risk for unplanned admissions after elective ambulatory surgery.
Additional pre-interventional imaging with Met-PET/CT was able to identify hyperfunctioning parathyroid glands in 74% of patients with pHPT and negative sestamibi scans, thus enabling successful parathyroid surgery.
Placement of fixation across a contralateral, uninjured sacroiliac joint resulted in no differences in pain and function when compared with standard iliosacral screw placement across an injured hemipelvis at least 1 year after instrumentation. When needed for biomechanical stability, transsacral-transiliac fixation across an uninjured sacroiliac joint can be used without expectation of positive or negative effects on pain or functional outcomes at minimum 1-year followup.
The data from this study suggest that preterm infants with BPD are not at increased risk from SIDS compared with preterm infants without this condition. This may be related to close monitoring of the infants' oxygenation status and the provision of home oxygen when appropriate, which should eliminate episodes of unrecognized and untreated hypoxemia. Home monitoring for infants with BPD may not be warranted.
It does not appear useful to advise patients with long-standing hypertension to modify timing of aspirin intake in order to reduce BP values.
The proliferation parameters of CD4+ T cells reflect central pathophysiological changes in RA and can be used as new biomarkers for early RA diagnosis, which would enable the international rheumatology recommendation to be achieved concerning the early diagnosis and treatment of RA patients.
The increasing incidence of adenocarcinoma among white patients without a corresponding increase of this histology in blacks reflects a difference in diet and or lifestyle compared to blacks that deserves additional study. When treated aggressively with chemoradiation, race did not appear to be a statistically significant factor for overall survival.
These open, uncontrolled observations suggest that GLP1 analogs might provide a new treatment option in patients with problems of late PPHG.
Age predicted sufficiency of the rehabilitation in two directions, possibly reflecting different needs in younger and older patients. When tailoring rehabilitation programs, it should be ensured that the different needs are met.
Shortened cervical length in the midtrimester preferentially predicts early, as opposed to later, spontaneous preterm birth in high-risk women.
We suggest that the potential impacts of blood parasite infections on over-wintering birds may have been underestimated. Further research should consider the potential impacts of sub-clinical parasite infections on the dynamics of vulnerable populations, and we suggest using declining populations as model systems within which to investigate these relationships as well as examining interactions between sub-clinical disease and other environmental stressors.
These data suggest that MPTP toxicity impairs efficiently TH and that such an effect is not necessarily accompanied by significant reduction of dopamine transporter seen with in vitro or in vivo [(11) C]PE2I binding.
Stimulation parameters and locations effective in SCI animals did not suppress reflex sphincter activity in these human subjects. It is likely that a broader set of stimulus patterns and dermatome locations will need to be tested to find the effective combination in humans.
Stress management psychotherapy does not appear to improve disease course or reduce relapse in patients with IBD. It might improve quality of life, particularly in patients with UC.
Etiology of 'urethral instability' is unknown, but high prevalence among patients with overactive bladder syndrome, especially concomitant with detrusor activity can raise a fair question and direct further diagnostic as well as treatment efforts.
Estimates of health expectancy in a dynamic situation can be very misleading when based on the Sullivan method, with its attractively moderate data requirements. The multi-state method, which requires longitudinal studies of population health status, is often indispensable.
The 'constriction ring' is not an effective treatment for PE.
Postmenopausal women who performed moderate-intensity physical activity had more favourable cardiovascular-related physiological characteristics. Health professionals should encourage more postmenopausal women to participate in moderate-intensity activity to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease.
Patient satisfaction is not improved after elective minor wrist and hand surgery with a regional block accelerating the early return of motor function. For this surgery, motor block related to a long-acting brachial plexus block does not appear to cause patient dissatisfaction. Clinical Trial Registration number. ACTRN12610000749000, https://www.anzctr.org.au/registry/trial_review.aspx?ID=335931.
Circulating MenC-specific IgA memory B cells correlate with IgA responses in saliva, whereas circulating MenC-specific IgG memory B cells are not predictive for MenC-specific IgG responses in serum or saliva. Our results are suggestive for age-dependent differences in pre-existing memory against MenC.
Our data suggest a possible relationship between FGF-23, MMP-2 and CV disease in CKD. Potential causality of this association remains to be elucidated.
According to our results, we suggest that factors related to insulin-dependent diabetes seem to be involved in a favorable response to SC EPO. Hyperinsulinemia derived from subcutaneous use of insulin might act as a comitogen with the induced increments of serum erythropoietin.
MRI with Eovist® is superior to enhanced computed tomography in identifying colorectal liver metastases. The increased number of lesion identified on MRI with Eovist® can profoundly change the surgeon's management. It should be considered the "imaging modality of choice" in preoperative imaging for liver metastases in these patients.
Although reduction in maternal mortality ratio is a priority in Ghana's policy, many funding agencies supporting what are known as "safe motherhood" programmes are actually pursuing a somewhat broader reproductive health agenda. The evidence that this situation has actually led to a dilution of the maternal mortality reduction agenda is inconclusive, although our analysis has resulted in lessons which could be used to avert any risk to achieving this key millennium development goal. Government can use the SWAp to keep interests focused on the need for maternal mortality reduction, without detriment to other priorities. Strengthening partnerships will allow civil society and community focused interests to have a voice in influencing SWAp agendas. Good programme design with clear understanding of the link between programme components and objectives will help in making sure that maternal mortality targets are indeed achieved.
Differences in parental levels of education are associated with accelerating trends in prevalence of overweight and obesity among 16- to 20-year-old adolescents in Iceland.
The findings suggest that in urban settings in the UK the distribution of retail food stores may not be a major influence on diet and weight, possibly because most urban residents have reasonable access to food stores.
Authors of abstracts describing RCTs frequently did not classify them as clinical trials nor comply with reporting trial registration information, as required by the conference organizers. Systematic reviewers cannot rely on authors to identify relevant unpublished trials or report trial registration, if present.
Given that a significant proportion of patients prefer a biomedical communication style, practicing physicians and medical educators should strive for flexible approaches to physician-patient communication.
The results from rapid bedside pocket mobile echocardiography examinations performed by experienced cardiology fellows compared favorably with those from formal transthoracic echocardiography studies. For hospitalized patients, this finding could shift the burden of performing and interpreting the echocardiogram to the examining physician and reduce the number and cost associated with formal echocardiography studies.
Medium conditioned with human spermatozoa enhances sperm motility and penetration ability.
Postponement of first pregnancy does not explain the increase in pregnant women's sickness absence during the period 1993-2007 as both the highest level and increase in sickness absence is seen in the younger women. Reasons are poorly understood, but still important as it accounts for 25% of the increased gender gap in sickness absence.
We think that the surgeon's practice and experience are the most important to success the surgical treatment. It prevents complications and recurrences.
Transanal rectal resection can be safely and efficiently performed by means of a SILS port and standard laparoscopic instruments. The rectal defect may be left open and at 1 year continence is not compromised.
Before H. pylori eradication, the mucosa of the residual stomach may be at high risk of carcinogenesis due to induction of mucosal damage and active gastritis by H. pylori. Such changes were almost completely normalized by eradication therapy, so the eradication of H. pylori may reduce the risk of H. pylori-associated carcinogenesis in patients who have undergone gastrectomy for early gastric cancer.
The review time for novices in cardiac CT was approximately halved during the first 100 cases, with maintained accuracy. There was a learning-curve effect in PPV for the radiologists. The diagnostic accuracy of dedicated radiographers indicates that they might be considered to be included as part of the evaluation team.
The coverage of immunization programs has reached 60% in 85% of African countries, so selection bias does not appear to invalidate the measurement of intervention coverage at immunization contacts.
These contemporary global data show that anticoagulant use for stroke prevention is no different in men and women with nonvalvular AF. Thromboprophylaxis was, however, suboptimal in substantial proportions of men and women, with underuse in those at moderate-to-high risk of stroke and overuse in those at low risk.
Sharing money for local children's services requires shared objectives, trust, and legal and accounting expertise. Several different mechanisms are permitted and many are feasible but programme budgeting for children's services could make them more effective.
Although CTAs and immunomodulatory CD4(+) T cells represent potential targets for immunotherapy in MM, we did not find association among expression of such genes in MM.
Women with noncatastrophic blunt abdominal trauma in pregnancy tend to have favorable neonatal outcomes. Findings or reports of abdominal tenderness and uterine contractions are not predictive of preterm birth. Preterm birth was associated with increased peripartum complications. However, domestic abuse was associated with repeated trauma in the index pregnancy and increased peripartum complications.
A large extent of WMAs and a WMSI>2 predicted a poorer CRT response.
In patients with chest discomfort, we identified an independent influence of renal function on hs-cTn concentrations besides CAD, that affected the association of hs-cTn concentrations with adverse events. Estimating renal function is therefore warranted when interpreting baseline hs-cTn concentrations.
Because in a double-blind clinical trial, many parents can correctly guess that their child is receiving active drug, this may influence compliance with the protocol. Thus safeguards are needed to reduce parental bias that can invalidate the results of double-blind clinical trials.
The cognitive profile in current AN resembles that of ASD with important clinical implications. Replication studies with planned comparisons, examination of the state-or trait-nature of AN profile and clarification of factors underpinning similarities are required in order to broaden understanding of both disorders.
In this cross-sectional pilot study, MRA identified abnormal vessels in patients with early inflammatory arthritis. This is the first report of MRA visualizing abnormal vessels in this patient population. If the degree of neovascularization in early inflammatory arthritis predicts disease course, MRA evidence of abnormal vessels could be a new imaging biomarker.
In this study population, over 45% who were eligible participated. Rapport established with church representatives and congregations was critical to the sampling process. Using church rosters can be a low-cost, effective recruitment tool. However, key factors to consider when recruiting African Americans in this manner include: trust, study eligibility criteria, roster accuracy, and time, and generalizability.
If further validated, physician billing data could be used along with hospital inpatient data to make an important and unique contribution to adolescent injury surveillance. The limitations inherent in different datasets highlight the need to continue rely on multiple information sources for complete injury surveillance information.
Cervical stability was extremely affected in extension and partially affected in flexion by total disc replacement. With the prostheses with mobile RC, cervical curvature was readjusted under a low follower load. The SA-V and BS-FS designs exhibited better performances in the entire segmental stiffness and in the stability of the operative level than the BS-MI and BS-FI designs in flexion. The 5 designs demonstrated varying advantages relative to the stress distribution in the facet cartilages and on the bone-implant interface.
A restrictive red blood cell transfusion strategy appears to be safe for critically ill multiple-trauma patients. A randomized controlled trial would provide the appropriate level of evidence with regard to the daily use of blood in this population of patients.
This study illustrates the importance, in any country, of exploring the effects of national policy change from the perspective of practitioners, to identify unintended outcomes. Reductions in the core child health promotion programme can lead to difficulties in monitoring and improving children's health outcomes in areas of deprivation.
BP reduction achieved after renal denervation in patients with accessory renal arteries is less pronounced than in patients with bilateral single renal arteries.
Low mortality hospitals have superior ability to rescue patients from complications after cardiac surgery procedures. Outcomes review incorporating a collaborative multi-hospital approach can provide an ideal opportunity to review processes that anticipate and manage complications in the ICU and help recognize and share "differentiators" in care.
Our analysis of the widowhood effect uses 3 methods of classifying the causes of spousal death in an attempt to control for potential selection effects. Our results are highly consistent and suggest that this is a causal effect, rather than a result of selection.
Formal teaching of operative dictation is uncommon in U.S. residency programs but felt to be important by most residency program directors. A brief teaching session is effective and may be useful during residency training.
Just before graduation, nursing students' pharmacological knowledge and calculation skills are limited. Apart from the test results, students did not perceive themselves able to deliver safe medication care in practice. Schools need to address the shortcomings. In practice, awareness is needed regarding possible limitations of the newly graduated.
Many physicians are still reluctant to find out what the patient wants. Being ignorant they risk harming the patient. It is recommended that information about DNR status should be given incrementally and that the attitudes of the old and chronically ill in-hospital patients are studied. Do they want to be informed, and if so, how and when do they want it to be done?
We could not identify any surgery-radiotherapy interval that resulted in increased local recurrence if radiotherapy was delayed for administration of adjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer patients. Because of the heterogenous population of breast cancer patients, our results also support the need for further study to determine the optimum integration of radiotherapy and chemotherapy in the management of the conservatively treated breast.
Trauma patients with recent use of smokable methamphetamine may present with severe acidosis requiring urgent attention and treatment. This acidosis may exaggerate the severity of the actual injury. However, urine testing for methamphetamine does not identify patients who may harbor this acidosis.
Intensive phototherapy did not produce hemolysis in infants>or =35 weeks gestation.
A pain protocol, based on titration of 1 mg intravenous hydromorphone, driven solely by patient response to a simple standardized question repeated at intervals, resulted in achievement of satisfactory analgesia on at least 1 occasion in 99% of patients.
The high yield of intracranial lesions may be accounted for by the method of selection of cases for cranial CT.
Conservative policy is feasible and safe in 71% of cases, with a low medium-term recurrence risk.
Further research is necessary to understand exactly how participation in economic strengthening interventions, for example, those that employ matched CSAs, shape adolescent future orientation and psychosocial outcomes: what, if not savings, transmits the treatment effect and how?
In southern Brazil, CMs do not seem to be more frequently diagnosed in summer than in winter. Darkening of melanocytic lesions and increased awareness of skin lesions during the summer could be possible explanations for LMMs being more frequently diagnosed in summer than in winter in this sample.
From a health system perspective inclusive of private costs the provision of additional Saturday rehabilitation for inpatients is likely to have sustained cost savings per QALY gained and for a MCID in functional independence, for the inpatient stay and 12 months following discharge, without a cost shift into the community.
Overall performance of combined anatomical and historical findings offers incremental utility in detecting OSA. Results of this study suggest integrating both history and anatomical findings for a screening scheme of pediatric OSA.
Three-year-old children co-operate well in visual acuity testing. However, the examination time is a little longer and the testability rate is about 10% lower than at 4 years. Both 3-year-old and 4-year-old children can be tested equally well with the HVOT and the Lea Symbol charts.
The use of a diffuse irrigation at the ablation catheter tip does neither facilitate lesion formation nor reduce the amount of irrigation during RF ablation for typical right atrial flutter using recommended flow and power settings.
We found no statistically significant difference in AF incidence after CABG and OPCABG. Different trends were noticed in the timing of occurrence of AF in these two groups.
The inhalation of 1% l-menthol did not enhance the tolerability of the FB. However, l-menthol induced a significant increase of the PEF immediately after inhalation. Finally sensation of dyspnea was decreased in both groups at the day post FB.
The majority of ambulances were called appropriately; however, there remains a significant proportion who could travel by other means. A high proportion of ambulance arrivals between midnight and 05:00 hours were intoxicated, abusive or victims of assault. This supported staff's perception that such patients form a substantial proportion of departmental workload at night.
The published guidelines appear to be properly used by most of the physicians in terms of the pharmacological approach; however, the increased use of Coxibs has not reduced the amount of prescribed gastroprotection. No specific precautions were observed in the treatment of patients with hypertension or cardiac problems. Nonpharmacological treatments are mainly used in conjunction with medications and did not take into account the findings of evidence-based medicine. Continuing education of GPs and specialists caring for OA patients is essential.
MTC (MT ratios) failed to show significant differences between benign and malignant lesions as was expected due to basic differences in cellularity, rate of mitosis and chromatin content. MTC might however gain more importance in separating scar tissue from recurrent tumor in the future.
The lack of agreement between different outcome measures means that pooling of data on these different disability measurements in a meta-analysis is not recommended.
The gender of the SP may significantly affect student performance in an undergraduate OSCE in a manner that appears to be unrelated to student gender. It would be prudent to use the same SP gender for the same case, even on seemingly gender-neutral stations.
This study showed that hypertension was overdiagnosed among hypertensive subjects undergoing treatment. New diagnostic procedures should be performed after drug withdrawal, with the aid of BP monitoring.
National mortality statistics strongly underestimate the number of deaths associated with HF. Moreover, the high mortality rate in HF patients amounts to a remarkably large number of life years lost given the advanced age of disease onset.
Kic-Gln appears to be a poor extra-cellular precursor of Gln to sustain cell growth.
As for single autoantigens, we show that proteins that are frequently reactive with cancer sera are also frequently reactive with non-cancer sera. While these results underline the potential of autoantibody signatures for cancer diagnosis, they also caution to premature claim specificity of a signature.
In summary, the majority of patients used telemonitoring daily and developed self-care skills in monitoring their heart failure. Such skills were developed over the six-month time-period of the study.
Although age and family history are independent predictors of sporadic, hereditary, and familial breast cancer risk, women in the community could not distinguish between the three forms of the disease. Although the sample included a large number of educated women, their knowledge of breast cancer risk factors appeared incomplete.
In this cross-sectional study, physical job demands and job autonomy explained a substantial proportion of occupational class inequalities in self-reported musculoskeletal pain in the working population in Oslo. This finding indicates that the workplace may be an important arena for preventive efforts to reduce socioeconomic inequalities in musculoskeletal pain.
Total hip arthroplasty with use of 32/36 mm Delta ceramic bearing showed lower incidence of hip dislocation compared with 28 mm third generation ceramic bearing. A caution should be paid to prevent a fall in senile patients even though a large head is used. The short-term results of THA with this type of ceramic articulation are encouraging and we did not find any ceramic-related complications.
Postprocedural chest radiographs after image-guided central venous catheter insertion are not routinely required. A postprocedural chest radiograph can be performed on a case-by-case basis at the discretion of the interventional radiologist.
Following a suicide bombing attack, external signs of trauma should be used to triage victims to the appropriate level of care both at the scene and in the hospital. Triage of salvageable and nonsalvageable victims should take into account the presence of amputations, burns, and open fractures.
This study documents a high incidence of lymph node micrometastases as detected by sentinel node biopsy in patients with high-risk DCIS and DCISM. Although the biological significance of breast cancer micrometastases remains unclear at this time, these findings suggest that sentinel node biopsy should be considered in patients with high-risk DCIS and DCISM.
The pilot 'Be Clear on Cancer' awareness campaign had a significant effect on the number of patients being referred from GPs to hospital; however, the effect was short lived and had returned to baseline by 3 months. The campaign had no effect on the number of new cancers diagnosed, which was the stated underlying aim of the pilot.
In clinical practice, the MLD can be used to predict lung toxicity of a treatment plan, except for dose values that could lead to severe side effects. In the latter mentioned case, limitations to the predictive value of the MLD are possible. Such severe developments of a radiation-induced pneumopathy are better predicted by the NTCPlung formalism. The predictive advantage of this parameter compared to the MLD seems to remain in the evaluation and comparison of widely differing dose distributions, like in the investigated trial.
The results indicate that the use of ICPs had a strong influence on the PA level. Two thirds of the variation in the ICPs could be explained, however, a certain degree of measurement error will be present. Thus, we are not able to conclude with respect to the most appropriate procedure for analyzing time in MVPA.
Among patients beginning antihypertensive treatment, those with established CHD or CHD risk factors were more likely to receive statins, but a substantial fraction did not fill any statin prescription. The increased use of statin therapy could benefit many hypertensive patients with additional CHD risk factors.
VA and LCA performance was significantly poorer in DS and CP groups than in controls, and high-contrast VA did not reliably predict low-contrast performance. Therefore both high- and low-contrast acuity assessment are valuable to fully describe an individual's visual function, and this may be particularly relevant in DS and CP in cases in which patients are unable to articulate visual difficulties. Age-specific reference data from a large sample of typically developing young people across a broad age range are presented for clinicians using high- and low-contrast Lea symbols.
In patients who fail to achieve adequate sedation with the use of traditional medications, dexmedetomidine is an adequate alternative. However, abrupt discontinuation of dexmedetomidine may result in withdrawal symptoms that may be avoided with a dexmedetomidine taper.
Although patients with antibodies to CagA have the greatest risk of developing gastric cancer, those with CagA-negative infections run a significantly greater risk than uninfected persons.
Life-course-persistent asthma is related to a proposed biomarker of accelerated aging, possibly via systemic eosinophilic inflammation. Life histories of asthma can inform studies of aging.
Clinical data are not sufficiently predictive of the presence of PLMD to rule in or rule out the diagnosis. Polysomnography is required for establishing the diagnosis of PLMD in patients with insomnia or hypersomnia.
Anti-HCV antibody-positive ESRD patients have higher hemoglobin and hematocrit levels compared to HCV-negative patients.
Conclusions about biomarker performance that are based primarily on a statistically significant NRI statistic should be treated with skepticism. Use of NRI P values in scientific reporting should be halted.
Our results demonstrate lower levels of calcium and SS CaOx on univariate and multivariate analysis, as well as lower levels of citrate on multivariate analysis in patients with HTN. These results suggest that lower levels of citrate may contribute to stone formation to a greater degree in patients with HTN than abnormalities in calcium metabolism.
We did not find support to the theory that respiratory infection caused by a given viral species would favour growth of a certain bacterial pathogen in the MEF more than another.
Prophylactic drainage of the pelvic space does not improve outcome or influence the severity of complications.
As bone remodelling requires the immigration, proliferation and differentiation of osteoblasts at the fusion site, high dosages of intrawound vancomycin might interfere with regenerative processes and increase the risk of non-union. To allow an appropriate balance of infection risk and the risk of non-union, the minimal local concentration required should be determined by controlled in vivo studies.
The systemic response to the infection was strongest and the course of the infection most severe in the absence of preceding dental treatment and in patients with poor dental health. All types of dental treatment contributed to a less severe course of infection.
Dacryolith is an unusual cause of nasolacrimal duct obstruction. This case highlights this unusual cause, and the relevant diagnostic investigations. This case also illustrates successful endonasal endoscopic management, rather than an external, open approach.
In children, 25OHD levels are not affected by acute bacterial infections; 25OHD levels taken during acute bacterial infection are representative of baseline levels. 25OHD levels collected during acute bacterial infection provide reliable information for case-control studies.
CPB provides the possibility of safely resecting intrathoracic tumors invading cardiac structures that were previously inoperable. This can be achieved with an acceptable level of risk and - in very selected cases - may achieve long-term survival.
This case highlights the importance of adequately analyzing the stage of colon cancer and offering appropriate treatment. Equally important is the early involvement of a surgeon in discussing the timing of the treatment for recurrence. Perhaps if the patient had received chemotherapy or earlier resection, he could have been spared the forequarter amputation. The physician must also be aware of the remote possibility of an unusual presentation of metastasis in order to pursue timely work up.
Our findings are in accord with the concept that LMN degeneration in ALS is related to local factors in the spinal cord.
Clinical evaluations of medical students may favor personality styles that reflect positive elements of extraversion, agreeableness, and conscientiousness. The present findings raise questions regarding the validity of clinical evaluation elements in clerkship performance appraisal.
Fine-needle aspiration cytology was found to be highly specific for malignancy but its sensitivity for malignancy was poor. The results show that although FNAC is relatively inexpensive and minimally invasive, it cannot be relied upon to provide an accurate tissue diagnosis, may fail to identify malignancy and does not prevent patients undergoing surgery for non-neoplastic conditions.
PR prolongation may affect mortality and heart failure hospitalizations in patients with systolic dysfunction, heart failure, and wide QRS complexes. The effect of PR prolongation may be attenuated by CRT.
Long-term success for unselected patients undergoing DPVL is disappointing; however, careful patient selection significantly improves long-term results.
Blood from donors positive for both anti-HBc and anti-HBs should be considered suitable for transfusion purposes. This is consistent with the practice of accepting blood from naturally immune donors for preparation of hepatitis B immunoglobulin.
IMRT can be improved by using dose constraints assigned to the PTV expansion VV and/or to the origin of the coronary arteries.
Hand disinfectant products can significantly interfere with blood electrolyte analysis. Proper precautions must be taken against contamination since the resultant errors can adversely affect the clinical management of patients.
Repeat hepatectomy for R-CLM shows a comparable OS to non-recurrent CLM after single hepatectomy, despite the RH group had higher incidence of synchronous CLM.
Few patients brought to the ED on an involuntary hold required a medical screen. Use of basic criteria in the prehospital setting to determine who required a medical screen (altered mental status, ingestion, hanging, traumatic injury, unrelated medical complaint, rape) could have led to significant savings.
Endoscopy of the vas deferens is possible with a 0.56-mm flexible endoscope, but because of the extreme curvature of the vas at the inguinal ring, the complete vas cannot be evaluated in an antegrade manner.
We observed that surfaces sampling and application of molecular tools showed the same efficacy of species detection in high fungal load settings, corroborating the fact that surface sampling is crucial for a correct and complete analysis of occupational scenarios.
Patients can be reassured that their chances of pregnancy are the same whether their embryo transfer is performed by their own physician or another physician in the practice.
Fruit/vegetables and sedentary activities are both equally viable substitutes for high-calorie snacks. High-calorie snacks have a higher reinforcing value for highly restrained eaters.
Thus, our findings support a direct association between the reduction of butyrylcholinesterase by the increase of homocysteine and an indirect effect by increase in oxidative stress.
On the basis of this initial experience, TAPP hernioplasty with a Surgisis mesh affixed with fibrin glue is feasible, easy to perform, and effective in experienced hands, with good results. The well known characteristics of a minimally invasive and gentle approach, together with the type of mesh implanted and fixation using glue, might explain the encouraging results of this experience. Therefore, this type of mesh might be tailored to not only the sportsman or the patient with a contaminated surgical field, but may also be used in young patients, where there is a fear of leaving behind a long-term foreign body.
Erectile dysfunctions in AF patients are associated with elevated cardioembolic risk. We postulate that the diagnosis of ED should be considered an additional marker of prothrombotic state, and may be useful in clinical decision-making, especially in patients ≥ 65 years old.
The RWI may offer several advantages over a cochleostomy, and it seems to be a reliable, safe, and effective technique for cochlear implantation with today's cochlear implant electrodes. Further studies would be necessary to verify these findings for broad application to the cochlear implant patient population.
It appears that adequate didactic and clinical training is being provided to OMS residents in alloplastic TMJ TJR during their training. Additional studies might elucidate the actual geographic distribution of OMS surgeons who perform alloplastic TMJ TJR procedures.
Fetuses of ICP cases have significant left ventricular dysfunction. Mod-MPI can be used in the prediction of adverse perinatal outcomes in ICP.
In the current study, LADG in patients of heavier weight was accompanied by more technical difficulties, and the disadvantages of longer operative time and delayed recovery of bowel activity was observed in patients of heavier weight. Heavier weight appears to be an ominous factor in the successful completion of LADG and should be considered in the decision to use LADG. There are still benefits of a decreased incidence of serious wound and hernia complications in successful cases.
Injury prevention programs are effective in reducing burn-related hospitalizations among infants and toddlers, especially from more affluent communities, but not among school-aged children.
These findings are the first to suggest that endoglin expression on breast tumor lymphatic vessels may have diagnostic potential as a discriminator between lymph node-negative and lymph node-positive breast cancer. Further studies would be required to confirm this.
In laparoscopic hysterectomy, increasing the surgical volume can reduce the operating time and the risk for conversion to laparotomy but not the rate of serious complications.
In lung cancer patients, forced expiratory volume in 1 second and forced vital capacity assessed after neoadjuvant chemotherapy are not reliable indicators of the likelihood of respiratory complications after surgery. The risk of respiratory complication may be directly linked to loss of DLCO/Va. Lung diffusion for carbon monoxide assessed after neoadjuvant chemotherapy is probably the most sensitive risk indicator of respiratory complications after surgery. We recommend that DLCO studies be performed before and after chemotherapy in lung cancer patients undergoing induction therapy.
This series is the first to present pathologic data after the treatment of cKIT+ GISTs with Gleevec. In this series, the majority of responses were limited to partial responses, indicating that surgical resection remains a vital component of the treatment plan for patients with cKIT+ GISTs. This series is consistent with previous reports indicating that complete responses are extremely rare in response to treatment with Gleevec. Patients with advanced disease may benefit from a course of neoadjuvant therapy with Gleevec followed by resection, even when there is evidence of multifocal disease. A prospective evaluation of neoadjuvant Gleevec therapy for advanced cKIT+ GISTs is warranted.
Our results indicate that cCR after neoadjuvant CRT is significantly correlated with pCR and survival of patients with ESCC. Further studies are required to confirm the prognostic value of cCR after neoadjuvant CRT.
There is no correlation between a finding of tracheal deviation on preoperative CXR and difficult intubation in thyroid patients. Therefore, CXR for the sole purpose of identifying tracheal deviation in thyroid surgery candidates is not warranted.
Neither cognitive dysfunction nor OCD seems to be associated with the DYT11 phenotype in this large Dutch pedigree. Depressive and anxiety symptoms are increased in symptomatic, but not in asymptomatic DYT11 MC. Future research has to be carried out to determine whether the psychiatric symptoms are part of or secondary to the DYT11 phenotype.
Findings suggest that although a service orientation remains a key factor in choosing nursing, students also look for a career which matches their interests and attributes, as well as offering professional values and rewards. Nursing may be in danger of losing service orientated recruits to other non-medical health professions.
Many of the consumers of Internet health information may genuinely need treatment and are not "cyberchondriacs." Online screening, treatment, and prevention efforts may have the potential to serve many currently untreated clinically depressed and suicidal individuals.
This study suggests that end-tidal isoflurane monitoring does not improve the titration of isoflurane during general anesthesia.
The hypointense signal intensity located lateral to the red nucleus and dorsolateral to the substantia nigra correlates with the presence of iron and corresponds anatomically to the subthalamic nucleus. It can therefore be used as a landmark for electrode implantation in patients with Parkinson's disease. It should, however, be emphasized that although hypointensity was always present in the anterior half of the subthalamic nucleus, the posterior part of the nucleus was not visible in most cases.
Choline and betaine intakes were associated with both fasting and post-methionine-load total homocysteine concentrations, especially in participants with low folate and vitamin B-12 status. The inverse association between choline and betaine intakes and homocysteine concentrations was no longer present in the postfortification period.
In most cases, respondents were in accordance with the guidelines, although there were some unexpected variations.
The SNOT-22 was unable to predict the outcome of surgical patients with chronic rhinosinusitis.
Although the overall cervical length by serial TVS after cerclage did not predict preterm birth, absent CLA is associated with preterm delivery, chorioamnionitis, and PPROM.
This longitudinal investigation reveals that TTM behavioral processes, particularly self-liberation, predict successful transition out of precontemplation for adult fruit and vegetable consumption, suggesting that public health messages tailored according to these TTM variables may be effective for this group. However, for adults prepared to adopt or maintain fruit and vegetable consumption, tailoring based on variables from other theories is needed.
RLP levels predicted CHD incidence independently of nonlipid risk factors and of total cholesterol or high-density and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. However, RLP levels did not provide additional information about CHD incidence over and above total triglyceride levels. Therefore, this study does not support the need for testing of remnants in men if measures of fasting triglycerides are available.
The present study provides first-time evidence for a right CI advantage for speech perception in prelingually deafened children that can be taken into account when selecting side of CI in candidates with similar residual hearing in both ears and no anatomic constraints. The present data lend further support to the notions that greater gains in speech perception are associated with earlier age at implantation and continuous use.
There appears to be a systematic difference in the treatment received by men and women in the United Kingdom. The reasons for this are uncertain.
The frequency of keratoplasty for keratoconus has been more than halved in our department over the last decade. There is reason to believe that this reduction is for a great part caused by the introduction of CXL treatment.
The lower serum and saliva prohepcidin and hepcidin concentrations found in RAS and BD patients indicate that hepcidin may be involved in the aetiopathogenesis of these diseases. Because it can be obtained non-invasively and easily, saliva may provide a useful alternative to serum in quantifying prohepcidin and hepcidin concentrations.
The observations showed that RT 3D TEE reliably can measure the coronary ostium distance from the aortic annulus. It is feasible and an alternative method for evaluating these measurements and thereby preventing contrast exposure during MDCT, which may jeopardize the safety of patients with pre-existing renal disease.
Never-smokers with RRs of 15 to 35 have similar to better trade-offs between benefits and harms compared with ever-smokers recommended for lung cancer screening by the USPSTF guidelines. For most never-smokers, lung cancer screening is not beneficial.
Nutritional aspects might partially explain differences regarding bone mass in adolescent cyclists and should be taken into account in bone mass analysis as important confounders.
In our environment, obstetricians were the most attached to technology and interventions including caesarean section and inductions, midwives the least, while family physicians fell in the middle. While generalisations can be problematic, obstetricians and midwives generally follow a defined and different approach to maternity care. Family physicians are heterogeneous, sometimes practising more like midwives and sometimes more like obstetricians.
Demographics, precipitating factor, clinical manifestations, and prognostic factors of colorectal cancer liver metastasis and intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma differed remarkably. High incidence of CDX2 and MUC2 expression in colorectal cancer liver metastasis and intraductal growth type-intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma might explain their similar cytoarchitecture and survival.
Most states did not demand independent scientific review, IRB review, or basic ethical features of high-quality trials; provided partial coverage; omitted prevention, detection, and palliation research; and omitted mandated coverage for research-related injuries. Few required evaluation, independence in publication, or posting trial results. Further research on the impact of diverse state choices would improve policy making.
These results suggest that maternal control is likely to have been elicited by children with high levels of anxiety.
Further development of an ORT using additional data and enhanced statistical analysis may lead to a practical tool. However the practical, ethical and legal issues involved in its use, and the public health policy considerations that follow must be resolved.
We conclude that there is no "anatomic reason" for CP in patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis that is evident on chest CT.
Stent implantation in right coronary artery lesions, tortuous lesions, and/or longer lesions covered with longer stents, and not SES versus BX-BMS use, may be associated with increased likelihood of SF.
In healthy subjects, there is a link between mechanical sensitivity of the masticatory muscles and fluctuation of the ovarian hormones. The relationship between PPTs of the masticatory muscles and the ovarian cycle should be also investigated in patients with temporomandibular disorders and/or orofacial pain conditions.
Isolated transient myoclonus with or without asterixis may be more common than generally believed, and it could be a clinical entity or disease spectrum. Transient myoclonus is a benign condition in the elderly, but can be under-reported or misdiagnosed. Therefore, it is important to recognize that the elderly may have this syndrome.
Angiography is useful in diagnosing graft-related problems in the perioperative period. In presence of signs of graft compromise, we suggest that having a low threshold for angiographic graft evaluation may be beneficial in a carefully selected subset of patients after coronary artery bypass.
Our results suggest an IOFIX improves force distribution across an ankle arthrodesis compared with a single conventional lag screw.
We cannot confirm the reports of others that characteristic ultrastructural features in smooth muscle cells accompany bladder outlet obstruction and detrusor hypocontractility.
The presence of a ChRCC affected Mo-DCs generated in vitro, which recovered their function after tumor removal. This indicates that the favorable outcome observed after ChRCC resection may be due to the restoration of immunocompetence. Furthermore, since functional alterations described for DCs within tumors may be also found in Mo-DCs, their accurate functional analysis-not restricted to the determination of their surface immunophenotype-may provide an indirect "window" to the tumor microenvironment.
This study identified relationships between a common clinical outcome measure and specific, modifiable gait adaptations that can persist after THA-ROM and transverse plane gait moments. Addressing these aspects of gait dysfunction through focused rehabilitation could be a new strategy for improving clinical outcomes. Prospective studies are needed to evaluate this concept.
The present study suggests that a substantial number of patients with delirium have catatonic symptoms and a significant proportion have catatonic syndrome. This high prevalence makes the concurrent diagnosis of delirium and catatonia plausible. The association of catatonia with a specific motor subtype of delirium could encourage the expansion or even modification of the existing subtypes of delirium.
WML are extremely common in elderly, non-demented individuals. Unlike in younger individuals, MRI abnormalities may not be evidence of a current pathological process and their importance may change with advancing age.
Regardless of the scenario that individuals were presented with, a substantial proportion of individuals (31-56%) who could potentially require thrombolytic therapy chose SK over TPA. This study should be repeated in other settings to establish the generalizability of our results. Assuming that these results will be consistent, considering the patient's perspective has significant implications on clinical decision making as well as from an economic perspective.
Locomotor efficiency is lower during the latter stages of each half of competitive soccer match-play, a trend synonymous with observations of increased injury incidence and fatigue in these periods. Locomotor efficiency may be a valuable metric to identify fatigue and heightened injury risk during soccer training and match-play.
The feeding difficulties are related to the organic condition and not specific difficulties in mother-infant interaction. Professional support may be required for mothers of infants with CHD to maintain feeding routines and to deal with the difficulties that arise.
Severely injured patients who can achieve optimal hemodynamic values are more likely to survive than those who cannot, regardless of the resuscitation technique. In this study, attempts at early optimization did not improve the outcome of the examined subgroup of severely injured patients.
Conduction of a screening program by valid visual inspection to detect potentially malignant oral disorders within a workplace is not only feasible but also effective.
With appropriate training, health care administrators and health care professionals are very receptive regarding the involvement of CHWs in a TCP delivered through a public health system.
Among cancer patients the idea that opioids represent a comfort measure for the dying and not legitimate analgesics may represent a greater barrier to their uptake than concerns about tolerance or addiction.
Flat DALM, similarly to Paris class I ALM, can be managed safely by EMR in CUC. A change in management paradigm to include EMR for the resection of flat dysplastic lesions in selected cases is proposed.
The results offer support for the theoretical models that stressed the essential links between personality and immune regulation. Further studies with larger samples examining the Big five factors and immune system parameters are needed.
During a 7-year follow-up, this cohort of 117 women with AGC and negative initial evaluation findings developed fewer significant delayed diagnoses than expected when compared with an older reported group and had no new extragynecological cancers. Age seems to be a risk factor for delayed diagnoses in patients with AGC.
Hybrid SPECT/CT imaging identified potential pain generators in 92 % of cervical spine scans and 86 % of lumbar spine scans. The scan precisely localised SPECT positive facet joint targets in 65 % of the referral population and a clinical decision to inject was made in 60 % of these cases.
Text messaging interventions are effective in improving individuals' knowledge and attitudes regarding preventive health-care topics.
The findings suggest that OCT data must be interpreted with caution when differentiating between MPH and LMH. In this series, the two groups showed similar foveal AF. AF imaging may add useful information to the differential diagnosis of MPH from LMH: the presence of foveal AF is consistent with a loss of foveal tissue and therefore a diagnosis of LMH.
Similarly aged patients have similar pregnancy prospects after fresh embryo transfer when the same number and quality of embryos are replaced, irrespective of their number of oocytes. Selecting the desired number of good-quality embryos for transfer is the key to IVF success. Thus, aiming at retrieving an optimal number of oocytes to maximize IVF outcomes in a fresh cycle could place undue stress on the patients and may not be the best medical decision.
RSA associated with a repair of deltoid tear could be a viable surgical option in cases of tear involving the anterior and middle deltoid associated with a RCA. Patient with a preoperative chronic axillary nerve neuropathy associated with a deltoid muscle tear should be cautioned about the possibility of lower functional outcomes.
SCD patients represent a demographically distinct subgroup of priapism patients with different patterns of resource use manifested by longer hospital stays and more blood transfusions. Moreover, despite evidence that immediate treatment of priapism results in improved erectile function outcomes, SCD patients had less surgical procedures for alleviation of acute priapism events.
These findings indicate that it is difficult for alcoholics to regulate their attention to alcohol stimuli, suggesting that alcoholics' processing of alcohol information is automated.
No definitive model for accurately predicting presence of NAFLD and fibrosis currently exits. Furthermore, under no circumstances should a clinical "NAFLD fibrosis score" replace liver biopsy at this time for RYGBP patients.
Our study clearly demonstrates that levels of inflammatory cytokines as well as their antagonists and adhesion molecules are elevated in patients on hemodialysis therapy. Baseline values before the start of a dialysis session did not show any differences with regard to the usage of CU or PS dialysis membranes. However, CU dialyzers led to a significantly greater stimulation of TNF-alpha during the dialysis session in comparison to PS membranes, suggesting a higher degree of bioincompatibility.
These findings suggest that the MMN deficit seen in schizophrenia patients is most likely a consequence of the disease and that MMN, at least to basic auditory feature deviants, is at best only weakly endophenotypic for schizophrenia.
We have shown that H2S is a potent vasodilator of human pulmonary arteries and is a significant anti-hypertensive for pulmonary artery pressures. Our results indicate that this therapeutic potential should be further evaluated in clinical trials.
Wound infiltration with tramadol may be a good choice for postoperative analgesia in children having inguinal herniotomy.
Adenotonsillectomy increases the volume of the pharyngeal space, but this increase does not correlate with the objective tonsil size. Furthermore, greater BMI was associated with a smaller increase in the pharyngeal volume. Oropharyngeal structures and craniofacial morphology may also play a role in the increase in oropharyngeal volume.
Percutaneous repair provides function similar to that achieved with open repair, with a better cosmetic appearance, a lower rate of wound complications, and no apparent increase in the risk of rerupture.
Among postmenopausal women with angiographic CAD, the metabolic syndrome is very prevalent. The IDF modification of the ATP III definition only identifies a small additional number of women as having metabolic syndrome, independent of ethnicity or age, and provides little additional prognostic information.
1) The circulating anti-muscle-specific tyrosine kinase antibodies caused neither muscle-specific tyrosine kinase nor acetylcholine receptor deficiency at the endplates; 2) the reduced intercostal miniature endplate potential and current amplitudes were not accounted for by acetylcholine receptor deficiency; 3) the faint immunoglobulin G deposits at the endplates may or may not represent anti-muscle-specific tyrosine kinase antibodies; and 4) the anti-muscle-specific tyrosine kinase antibodies may not be the primary cause of myasthenic symptoms in this patient.
Nephrocalcinosis in preterm neonates can have long-term sequelae for glomerular and tubular function. Furthermore, prematurity per se is associated with high blood pressure, relatively small kidneys, and (distal) tubular dysfunction. Long-term follow-up of blood pressure and renal glomerular and tubular function of preterm neonates, especially with neonatal nephrocalcinosis, seems warranted.
Troponin I is a useful short-term index of birth asphyxia or perinatal depression. An increased TOI suggests a risk of abnormal neurological outcome at 1 year. Among the cotside variables, BE and evoked potential abnormalities were the best predictors of abnormal outcome in this study.
This study has explained some anomalies in the performance of different stocks of T gondii, and suggests that lineages that are still evolving in cell culture should be avoided.
Compared with a control group of residents from the same program, residents who passed the ABSCE examination on the first attempt were more likely to have higher USMLE Step 2 and professional communication scores. USMLE Step 1 scores and English as a native language were not associated with certifying examination pass rates. These criteria may offer guidance for residents preparing to take the ABSCE and may aid in the selection of residents for residency programs. Larger studies to validate these findings and to investigate the role of improving communication skills and conducting interventions between the 1st and 2nd attempt are warranted.
Laparoscopic appendicectomy is a safe, predictable, easily learnt operation and an ideal model for learning the skills and principles required for more advanced laparoscopic colorectal interventions and in particular, right hemicolectomy.
EDAC during peak pressure has negligible impact on pulmonary function tests and breathing symptoms. The importance of the severity, length, and duration of the EDAC is discussed.
Employee control over daily working hours may protect health and help workers successfully combine a full-time job with the demands of domestic work.
Certain doubts were raised about the usefulness of the FENO, as opposed to the traditional methods of asthma control with regard to the therapeutic management of clinically controlled patients who are not receiving treatment and who have high FENO values. It would appear unwise to recommend the systematic treatment of patients with high FENO values, when measured during a routine check-up, in cases of asthma with an allergic component and are asymptomatic or in a phase of asthma under good control.
The findings support the concept of "doubling over" the GAN to act as an appropriate interpositional facial nerve graft when there is a size mismatch between the two.
Although idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis causes high mortality after pulmonary resection for lung cancer and poor long-term survival, long-term survival is possible in patients with these two fatal diseases. Therefore, in selected patients, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis may not be a contraindication to pulmonary resection for stage I lung cancer.
Wisconsin has made progress in reducing death rates in adolescents and young adults, especially in fatal motor vehicle injuries. However, significant disparities still exist between whites and blacks, males and females, and leading causes of deaths. Wisconsin should work to reduce the mortality rate in adolescents and young adults and to eliminate disparities by 2010.
Clinicians' views of drug therapies are affected by the common use of relative risk reductions in both trial reports and advertisements, by end-point emphasis, and, above all, by underuse of summary measures that relate treatment burden to therapeutic yields in a clinically relevant manner.
Concluding, our models show that the control of transposon activity can be achieved by alternative pathways that lack RdRP and act through different feedback mechanisms. Thus, although RdRP activity is ubiquitous in eukaryotes, it need not be a general requirement for transposon control.
In our experience, mid-term functional outcome after Monarc(®) transobturator tape procedure seems to deteriorate. After 4 years of follow-up, 61% of the women who were initially cured were still free from any leakage.
Aspirin consumption appears to modify the presentation of AMI, increasing the likelihood that the infarct will be of the small, non-Q-wave variety.
Postoperative radiation therapy doses>62.5 Gy were noted to significantly improve local control in patients with extremity soft tissue sarcomas. This is the first analysis in the literature to demonstrate the independent influence of total dose on local control of extremity soft tissue sarcomas treated with adjuvant postoperative irradiation.
The intervention plans developed to enforce the two Italian decrees had an effect on the reduction in injury rates. The results showed that there was a decrease in injury rates that could not be explained by external factors. These findings highlight the importance of concrete initiatives to have employers and workers comply with regulatory safety standards.
The results of this study demonstrate that complete preservation of residual hearing is possible in a limited number of patients using the suprameatal approach technique for cochlear implantation. For a reliable analysis of the audiometric effects of cochlear implant surgery, it is important to take into account the ceiling effects, therefore using different calculation methods to estimate the accurate deterioration of hearing thresholds.
Rigid commitment to the Ponseti method in the conservative treatment of patients with isolated clubfoot was associated with a lower risk of subsequent unplanned surgical intervention. In addition, clubfoot treatment programs that use a care model that prioritizes continuity in care and dedication to the Ponseti method may decrease the proportion of patients who undergo unplanned surgical intervention.
The validity of computerized tomography staging of childhood renal tumors remains doubtful. This staging is more accurate for tumors treated with up-front surgery and those without extracapsular extension. Preoperative computerized tomography can help to exclude capsular breach. Treatment strategy should be based on surgical and pathological staging to avoid the hazards of inaccurate staging.
Unlike technical skills, warm-up with MP does not seem to improve CRM skills in simulated crisis scenarios.
Once emulsification was detected clinically in the anterior chamber, extensive emulsification would have already occurred in the posterior chamber, with most of the emulsified droplets that were too small in size to be seen on clinical examination. Ostwald ripening might explain why there were so many small droplets. The predominance of small droplets might account for some of the clinical complications associated with silicone oil use.
An increased PSA in patients with minor or no LUTS, clinical BPH and negative extended multi-site prostate biopsy is strongly correlated to bladder outlet obstruction. Therefore, patients with these characteristics should be treated with TURP.
Distinctive clusters of dietary patterns can be derived. Yet, cluster membership is unstable and only few sociodemographic factors were associated with cluster membership and cluster transition. These findings imply that clusters based on dietary intake may not be suitable as a basis for nutrition education interventions.
Doctors can increase satisfaction and moderately improve functional outcomes in the period immediately after the consultation when back pain is worst, by using very simple interventions: either by endorsing a self-management booklet or by giving advice to take exercise. Previous studies suggest that simple advice and the same written information provide reinforcement. This study supports evidence that it may not be helpful to provide a detailed information booklet and advice together, where the amounts or formats of information differ.
These data suggest that there are significant differences in the profile of social and communicative symptomatology in FXS compared with individuals diagnosed with idiopathic autism. Given these differences, the implementation of standard autism interventions for individuals with FXS may not be optimal. Maintaining the conceptual distinction between FXS (an established biological disease) and idiopathic autism (a phenomenologically defined behavioral disorder) may also facilitate the development of more targeted and thus effective interventions for individuals with FXS in the future.
5-ASA may be an alternative treatment for hemorrhoids; however, it does not affect the rectal band ligation-induced pain.
Even after surgical correction of VUR before transplantation the frequency of febrile UTI remained higher than that in kidney transplant recipients without VUR. In cases of high grade VUR reimplantation before renal transplantation decreased the rate of febrile UTI but it was still higher than the level of risk in the control group.
Red patch biopsy yields a positive finding of malignancy in 12% and was concluded to be a valuable exercise, particularly in those over the age of 60 years and on follow-up for TCC.
SMLC is not different between black and white obese adolescents who have similar total body adiposity but lower visceral fat in blacks. The lack of association between IS and SMLC after adjusting for total adiposity suggest that muscle fat does not make a unique contribution to IS in this group of obese adolescents regardless of race.
Since the introduction of minimally invasive surgery at our tertiary referral center in 1997, the number of patients referred for an antireflux operation has increased. This cannot be explained by an increase of referrals from outside the region or a change in the indication for surgery. We conclude that laparoscopy lowers the threshold for the surgical treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease in children.
There is currently a clear distinction between day centres and day hospitals, in key features of their services and client groups. It would be unwise to treat them as interchangeable.
Manual palpation of uterine contractions is an inaccurate means of determining contraction strength.
Our data suggested that despite in utero MMC surgery, patients are at risk for bladder abnormal function and renal deterioration and should be aggressively treated, not differently from those operated in the post-natal term. This study has the merit of being a prospectively set evaluation performed by one investigator, including the urodynamic study. We acknowledge the need of long-term follow up.
Methemoglobinemia occurred in almost 20% of pediatric oncology patients receiving dapsone for PCP prophylaxis. Higher dapsone dosing is associated with increased risk. A cross-sectionally acquired cytochrome b5 reductase enzyme activity level was not associated with methemoglobinemia risk. Studies are needed to define biologic correlates of methemoglobinemia and evaluate lower dapsone doses for PCP prophylaxis.
The results of this analysis indicate that a DVR of ≥4.5 seconds predicts better outcomes of varicocelectomy.
The results indicated that a garbage dumping site is considered to be an environmental hazard among the nearby residents according to the lower scores on the physical and environmental domains of the QOL. The findings from this study provide comprehensive\ understanding on the residents' QOL, and they may help politicians and policy makers make decisions for appropriate interventions.
DPI values in patients with liver metastases differ from those in control subjects due to an increased hepatic arterial blood flow. No clear separation of the two groups was possible because DPI values overlapped. The inter observer agreement in DPI seems clinically acceptable.
These data suggest that the junior surgery clerkship has a favorable but transient impact on the negative perceptions that medical students have about surgeons. Perceptions return to negative values within 1 year of the clerkship. Recruiting efforts should be focused on earlier interaction with students rather than concentrating on a 2- to 3-month rotation in the junior year.
Titanium coating significantly reduced the iC3b and granulocyte activating immune response of GA-fixed pericardium. Therefore, it might prevent relevant immunorejection and increase the durability of GA-fixed bioprosthetic heart valves.
Anchoring of the upper flare of the FCSEMS with endoscopic sutures is technically feasible and significantly reduces stent migration rate when compared with no suturing, and is a safe procedure with very low AEs rates.
The treatment times for the helicopter were several minutes shorter when a physician-staffed ground rescue team had already arrived at the emergency site. However, it must be assumed that the total prehospital time is significantly longer for such missions. These results directly affect the disposition at the emergency dispatch center and indicate that when air rescue is required to transport a patient to hospital, the helicopter should be alerted at an early stage. In such settings, it is likely that initiating the operation in this way would improve the prognosis of severely injured patients and save costs.
Withdrawal of SA is possible in a small but distinct subset of patients, particularly in those who are very well controlled on relatively low doses administered at long intervals.
BIS appears to be more effective and cost-effective in advanced cancer than standard care.
SPT of the pancreas could be categorized according to the morphologic patterns observed in PET images. The clinical significance of FDG uptake, glucose metabolism, and clinical usefulness of PET scan in SPT need to be further investigated, and thus this tumor remains a surgical enigma.
Weight regulation has mentally important functions extending beyond the common notion that combat-sport athletes reduce their weight merely to gain a physical edge over their opponents.
An integrated pain course developed according to the pain curriculum guidelines developed by the IASP resulted in increased student knowledge regardless of the length of the program attended.
The mechanism of continence did not promote ischemic stress on the conduit, was able to promote high pressure resistance and showed good recovery of intersected muscle fibers, after an initial slight atrophy, suggesting good durability of the neo-sphincter.
LRO was significantly lower in women who received HRT. The excess risk of LRO was dependent on both age and HRT status. These findings suggest that HRT might prevent the onset of LRO, and therefore might contribute to the prevention of low back pain.
The McCulloch retractor generates a higher IMP than the Norfolk and Norwich retractor. However, postoperative improvement in VAS, ODI, and SF-36 scores in these patients was associated with a shorter duration of muscle retraction and not the degree of IMP or IPP generated. In this respect, periodic relaxation of the paraspinal muscle retractors during surgery to allow muscle perfusion may help to reduce postoperative back pain and disability.
An acute post-operative decline in phonemic VF can be predictive of a long-term phonemic VF deficit. The severity of this cognitive lesion effect does not predict the development of dementia which appears to be disease-related.
The trend suggests that there is no statistically significant difference in the rate of relapse and mortality between high and low cord orchidectomy for clinically stage 1 tumours. We would, therefore, advocate either a high or low cord orchidectomy for clinically stage 1 tumours.
There is no increased risk of infection when using foam sclerotherapy in outpatient rooms compared with using foam created under sterile operating-room conditions.
Purified Swedish pollen extract is a nonhormonal treatment of VMS that does not show inhibition of the CYP2D6 enzyme. This may have important clinical utility for women using tamoxifen for breast cancer treatment or chemoprevention who experience VMS.
Patients on HD with a BMI lower than 23 kg/m² did not present signs of energy wasting, whereas those with a BMI higher than 23 kg/m² had more inflammation, probably because of a greater adiposity. Thus, the BMI value of 23 kg/m² does not seem to be a reliable marker of protein-energy wasting in patients on HD.
These data demonstrating that in the UNITRA Medical School PBL curriculum tutor subject-matter expertise has little or no influence on student achievement in the discrete areas of tutor expertise.
These data support the concept that positive fluid balance per se is at least partially responsible for poor outcome in patients with pulmonary edema and defend the strategy of attempting to achieve a negative fluid balance if tolerated hemodynamically.
The study found that the use of the colorimeter in the general ward setting was not 100% sensitive or specific in ascertaining the location of a nasogastric tube as previously reported by many studies undertaken in intensive care settings. This is the first study on the use of a colorimeter to confirm the placement of a nasogastric tube in adult patients in the general ward setting. More research on the use of a colorimeter in the general ward setting and its potential use in certain processes for confirming the placement of a nasogastric tube is warranted.
The authors propose that whilst there are many similar factors linked to mortality between cohorts of general surgical and head and neck patients, there are several highly specific risk factors in open surgery of the upper aero-digestive tract in the head and neck which are linked with wound breakdown and morbidity which are omitted from the POSSUM scoring system. The authors warn against the use of this comparative audit tool in its current state for such surgical procedures and recommend the creation of a specific POSSUM for head and neck cancer surgery.
These findings document that hyper-responsiveness to threat but not to positive stimuli is specific for patients with PTSD.
In the present study, two essential prerequisites necessary for a screening programme for scoliosis to be effective have been met. However, definite proof of the effectiveness of screening still needs to be established because length bias and over-treatment bias cannot be ruled out using this design.
We found that the use of the Ventrica MVP for the case study under investigation was not associated with more critical fluid dynamics than with conventional hand-sewn anastomosis. Thereby, the device could facilitate beating heart and minimally invasive coronary artery bypass grafting without increasing local hemodynamic-related risks of failure.
The role of peri-operative antibiotics for non-perforated gangrenous appendicitis merits further study.
We hypothesise that a better selection by proper geriatric assessments is needed to achieve a more favourable balance between benefit and harm.
Preoperative radiotherapy can improve regional cervical control of stage I-III supraglottic cancer as compared with surgery alone.
This is the first study reporting on hK2 as a potential molecular marker for patients with thyroid cancer. We could demonstrate a correlation between diagnosis of thyroid cancer and the positive signal for hK2 in the RT-PCR assay. Future studies are necessary to prove the clinical value of hK2 as a molecular marker regarding recurrence and outcome.
These results suggest that large interfraction variation is present in breathing amplitude irrespective of coaching, leading to the suggestion of daily image guidance for verification of respiratory pattern and tumour related motion. Until further investigated it is not recommendable to use coached 4DCT for planning of a free breathing treatment course.
epsilon-Aminocaproic acid is effective in controlling postoperative bleeding in patients operated on for myocardial revascularization with the aid of cardiopulmonary bypass.
As in several other developing countries that have succeeded in slowing HIV transmission, HIV reductions in the DR seem mainly due to changes in sexual behavior, particularly increased condom use, especially for sex work, and partner reduction in men. Similarly favorable HIV declines and reported behavior change have occurred in some other Caribbean countries, including neighboring Haiti. However, of concern is that anal sex, both male-male and heterosexual, remains a taboo yet apparently common practice largely ignored by existing prevention campaigns. And although the DR epidemic has generally stabilized, there is a danger of complacency, and some recent data suggest that HIV prevalence is no longer declining (and may even be increasing) in some populations.
Results generally suggest that parents use similar parenting practices with adolescent siblings. However, notable patterns emerged when examining parenting practices and siblings' weight status that may be important to explore in future research.
With the help of sufficient support at the disposal of the patients, it is possible to significantly improve the compliance during the period of "fdp" after surgery. In order to get a safe and painless "fdp" in bed, an ergonomic body positioning is necessary (Schaefer 2012). By practicing the "fdp" until the gas bubble is completely resorbed, the risk of developing a postoperative cataract can be reduced significantly. Provided there is a good compliance to "fdp", the gas bubble can cause the desired tamponade effect even when using shorter acting gases. By performing a consistent "fdp" it is possible to accelerate the healing process and avoid reoperations. Hereby it should even be possible to use an SF6-air mix or optionally simply air as tamponade.
Most respondents had participated in basic research during training, and continued similar research after training. However, an overwhelming clinical practice at the junior faculty level seemed to hinder research. We conclude: (1) the majority consensus is that research training is integral to the development of academic surgeons; (2) such research training opportunities appear adequate; however, (3) faculty performing research, particularly at the junior level, need to be better protected from other academic duties, such as clinical practice and administration. The challenge to the leadership of academic surgery will be to enhance such research productivity in the context of increasing academic demands.
LAA closure using ACP is a relatively feasible procedure which can be performed by highly experienced operators to reduce stroke rate in patients with AF, high stroke risk, and contraindication to oral anticoagulants.
There does not appear to be an association between poor pregnancy outcomes and umbilical cord cysts during the first trimester.
Pediatric residents who had clinical experience and completed the curriculum demonstrated significant improvements in their medical record documentation and selective gains in knowledge and clinical performance of health maintenance compared with residents with clinical experience only. A structured curriculum in health maintenance and a multifaceted assessment system can identify and enhance the skills of pediatric residents.
CT offers promise as a preventive therapeutic technique in healthy older adults and particularly as a secondary prevention method for "at risk" groups. Future investigations need to focus on methodological constraints and delineating possible neuroplastic mechanisms of action. Nonetheless, CT programs may represent a viable, non-pharmacological early intervention strategy, as they are easily-implemented, engaging and promote social interaction in group settings.
NACT does not appear to compromise the diagnostic accuracy of intraoperative frozen section examination of pelvic lymph nodes in patients with cervical cancer.
The providers most likely to express interest in offering medical alternatives were OBs who reported they "ever perform surgical abortions." Many health professionals who said they do not perform surgical abortions also said they would be interested in prescribing mifepristone, indicating a potential expansion of the number of health professionals who will provide abortion services. Medical protocol and legal issues may inhibit or slow expansion of the pool of providers offering medical abortion.
In patients with clear cell RCC who underwent MR for adrenal masses, SII and MR features such as cystic change, necrosis, and hemorrhage were helpful in differentiating adenomas from metastases.
Because of its very poor sensitivity for the diagnosis of gastric fistula, the OGT on D2 needs to be reconsidered. CT performed on clinical suspicion appears to be a better diagnostic tool.
The relation of height to cardiovascular risk may relate to a society's history and stage of socioeconomic development.
As with previous studies in other settings, duration of the interactions was not influenced by pharmacy automation, as well as practitioners' job satisfaction, while practitioners' time constrains seem to be a subjective perception.
Uveitis in patients with psoriasis may have distinguishing clinical features. Further epidemiologic studies are required to determine the strength of association between psoriasis without arthritis but with uveitis.
NLUs provide opportunities for nurses to develop enhanced roles in which they can work autonomously in providing elements of therapeutic nursing aimed at improving patient outcomes at discharge. However, education, training and leadership will be needed to ensure that such opportunities are well understood and are optimized to the benefit of nurses and their patients.
We found in our small material that TEA provided excellent analgesia in the peri- and postoperative period, but we did not find a protective effect of TEA on chronic poststernotomy pain, neither weak pain nor severe pain.
Hepatic and renal impairment both altered dalcetrapib pharmacokinetics and increased thiol exposure, with the extent of the effect dependent on the severity of impairment. The effect of renal impairment may be linked to altered distribution of the thiol, which illustrates the importance of assessing distribution to understand the causes and consequences of altered pharmacokinetics of thiol drugs in patient populations.
Lack of measurable THC, CBD and CBN in OF following oral THC, and high OF CBD/THC ratios after Sativex distinguish oral and sublingual drug delivery routes from cannabis smoking. Low THCCOOH/THC ratios suggest recent Sativex and smoked cannabis exposure. These data indicate that OF cannabinoid monitoring can document compliance with Sativex pharmacotherapy, and identify relapse to smoked cannabis during oral THC medication but not Sativex treatment, unless samples were collected shortly after smoking.
This exploratory study suggests that postanaesthetic behaviour abnormalities with characteristics of distress or delirium can be categorized using known DSM-IV terminology; in our cohort this behaviour was dependent on age and anaesthetic technique.
BC is useful in explaining whether high bladder pressure is due to dysfunction or to preexisting disorders, and thus indicating the proper surgery for correction. Suprapubic BC significantly increases bladder capacity thus increasing the diagnostic yield of the UI.
Our data suggest intravenous administration of 2 g of cefazolin achieves the minimum inhibitory concentration for methicillin-sensitive S. aureus in serum and bone, but not the minimum inhibitory concentration for cefazolin-resistant coagulase-negative Staphylococcus in bone, resulting in a potential risk of deep surgical site infections in THAs and TKAs.
KLG2 knees with JSN and moderate contra-lateral RKOA, display relatively high rates of subregional femorotibial cartilage loss, despite being at a relatively mild stage of RKOA. They may therefore provide a unique opportunity for recruitment in clinical trials that explore the efficacy of anti-catabolic DMOADs on structural progression.
ECG-gated MDCT appears to be logistically feasible and shows promise as a comprehensive method for evaluating cardiac and noncardiac chest pain in stable emergency department patients. Further hardware and software improvements will be necessary for adoption of this paradigm in clinical practice.
The addition of gallium-aluminum-arsenide laser irradiation to intravenous regional anesthesia is safe, and reduces pain during and after the operation.
Current chemotherapeutic regimens lead to improved survival in patients with unresectable liver metastases. Upfront chemotherapy in the asymptomatic patient compared with resection of the primary tumor does not appear to significantly affect survival. However, given that 60% of patients were alive after 2 years, resection of the primary lesion for palliative reasons and local control must be considered.
Burst TENS inhibited collagen I and III production and impaired its alignment during healing of partial rupture of the Achilles tendon in rats.
Only a small proportion of incontinent NH residents with mobility and cognitive function potentially suitable for specific treatment for incontinence receives drug therapy for their condition. Further research is needed to determine whether low drug use reflects an unmet need for treating UI, or appropriate prescribing practices based on the multiple and interacting factors that influence decisions on drug therapy in the NH population.
Younger patients involved in contact or collision sports or who require overhead occupational use of the arm are more likely to have a redislocation of the shoulder than are their less active peers or older persons. However, even in the highest-risk groups, only approximately half of patients with shoulder redislocation requested surgery within the follow-up period. Early surgery based on the presumption of future dislocations, unhappiness, and disability cannot be justified.
Based on the Normotest results, we suggest that vitamin K crosses the placenta and persists to activate the vitamin K-dependent coagulant factors until at least the fifth day of life. Thus, prenatal vitamin K1 administration may replace prophylaxis at birth.
Gastroenterologists are often the gatekeepers for the management of patients with GORD. The understanding that this group has about surgical outcomes is important so that patients can make well-informed management decisions. The present study found that gastroenterologists are likely to convey to their patients higher degrees of postoperative dysphagia and bloating following fundoplication than is actually reported. This may deter some patients who would benefit from fundoplication from consulting a surgeon.
Despite several attempts to find a surgical technique without any significant complications, all described procedures failed to meet the target. In our experience, inguinal orchidopexy is a safe, reliable and successful surgical procedure for the management of NPIT. It should be preferred to a technique requiring vascular division, burdened with a higher incidence of atrophy.
This study shows that Hispanic race does not influence the treatment failure rate of radical prostatectomy in contemporaneously treated patients with prostate cancer at 1 institution. To our knowledge this study represents the largest of its kind, but longer followup and other confirmatory studies are needed.
The present study highlights the great benefit of good dental and oral health in the prevention of BRONJ; but it also shows that after the appearance of BRONJ, these factors do no longer seem to play a relevant role in the disease course.
(1) Compared to matched controls, patients with acquired aponeurogenic blepharoptosis more often have a decreased aqueous tear production (as measured by a Schirmer-1 test). Although a low tear production may have a causative role in the etiology of acquired blepharoptosis, it may also be explained by a dampened reflex in blepharoptosis patients (2) With age, the MRD as well as the Schirmer-1 score decrease in both groups.
Despite being younger and less severely injured, uninsured trauma patients had a significantly higher mortality rate. The etiology of this discrepancy is unclear and warrants further investigation.
An HIV prevention program that included the promotion and distribution of condoms did not increase sexual activity among the adolescents in this study.
In our experience, avoiding CPB was not associated with a statistically significant reduction in early mortality, myocardial infarction or stroke rates. It was only associated with a shorter postoperative ventilation and ICU stay and less use of inotropes.
Behavioral interviewing can provide predictive information regarding success in an obstetrics and gynecology training program.
The increasing numbers of IMID patients, many using immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapy, show similar travel patterns as non-IMID travelers. Thus, they are exposed to the same travel health risks, vaccine-preventable infections being one among them. Particularly, in view of the fact that live attenuated vaccines are less often administered to IMID patients more data are needed on the safety and immunogenicity of vaccines and on travel-specific risks to be able to offer evidence-based pre-travel health advice.
Personal recommendation by a letter prompting attendance for mammography from the general practitioner known best to women due to be screened did not improve uptake of breast screening in this east London practice. Other strategies are needed to increase uptake of mammography in inner cities.
Urethritis pathogens, including Trichomonas vaginalis, should be covered in syndromic management treatment of genital ulcers in the absence of clinical urethritis. Consideration should be given to adding metronidazole to existing MUS treatment. Ciprofloxacin can no longer be relied upon to treat presumptive gonococcal infections in South Africa.
It is within good practice, and it is also cost-effective, to obtain a cervical spine radiograph only on clinical parameters in trauma patients with no apparent bodily trauma and optimal parameters. With this clinical decision rule, 30.6% of all cervical spine series were redundant, and no (occult) spinal fractures would have been undetected.
The present results suggest that (i) the inflammatory process is intense in cutaneous ATL lesions and maintains a similar activity for several months; (ii) the dynamics of cell infiltration change during this period, with a gradual decrease in CD8+ T cells, probably correlated with a reduction in the parasite number; (iii) neutrophils may participate in the inflammatory process even during later stages of infection; (iv) the relative increase in the number of CD4+ T cells associated with the onset of fibrosis may suggest a participation of these cells in the control of the inflammatory process; and (v) late lesions with tendency for healing usually show focal inflammation. The study of healing lesions might contribute to the understanding of the late steps of the control of the inflammatory process in ATL lesions.
Early repolarization is almost always the rule in athletes but it is also frequent in sedentary males. Tracings somewhat simulating the Brugada syndrome were observed in only 8% of athletes without a history of syncope or familial sudden death. Significant differences exist between athletes with early repolarization and patients with the Brugada syndrome as regards the amplitude of ST elevation and QRS duration.
The number of DF mites was significantly higher in both lesional and nonlesional areas of patients with SD. This suggests that, when other aetiological causes are excluded, DF may have either direct or indirect role in the aetiology of SD.
The accuracies of the three versions of Partin tables in predicting OC, SVI, and LNI were good, especially the 2001 Partin table for SVI. In contrast, the accuracy of the three versions of the Partin tables in predicting ECE was fair. The 1997 Partin table was much better than the 2007 table in predicting OC, and the 2001 table in predicting SVI. The 2007 Partin table did not show any advantages.
This regimen was found to be efficacious in the treatment of SSNHL. The single most important factor that influenced the recovery was the duration of hearing loss before seeking treatment.
: Separated marital status is associated with a significant decrement in cancer survival, even in comparison with other unmarried groups. While other socioeconomic variables could contribute to this phenomenon, further research into the immunologic correlates of the acutely stressful condition of marital separation should be conducted. Cancer 2009. (c) 2009 American Cancer Society.
No statistical significant difference was evident for active pressure equalization (Valsalva and swallowing) between a hyperbaric setting (dive) and a hypobaric setting (flight) in healthy subjects.
Cerebrospinal fluid leak rates were similar in patients undergoing TL, SO, and MCF approaches, and CSF rhinorrhea was not decreased by ET packing. Patients whose ETs are packed with Proplast are at risk for extrusion and otorrhea years after their initial VS resection.
Immunization promoting activities, especially those known to be most effective in improving coverage such as monthly voucher pickup, are increasing in WIC. Focusing on effective interventions including supporting activities such as computerized assessment will be essential in meeting Healthy People 2010 infant and childhood immunization coverage goals. In addition, the use of WIC resources can be minimized by encouraging evaluation of diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis coverage as a marker for up to date status, instead of counting all vaccine doses.
These data indicate that perhaps a less strict national MRSA infection control guideline in Norway may be associated with the 4-6-fold increase of MRSA cases in the community after 2003.
Lateral closing wedge high tibial osteotomy combined with anterior translation of the distal tibial fragment more than 1.5cm achieved significantly better postoperative functional knee score. Both groups exhibited comparatively decreased posterior tibial slope.
Having formed a therapeutic relationship with the patient, discussion of SUDEP should be considered within that context, acknowledging the "art of medicine" and the implications of such discussion, similar to the situation a decade ago.
Children with an initial diagnosis of cleft lip and palate, which is more severe than cleft palate only, have comparatively higher rates of secondary cleft palate procedures than children with cleft palate only.
Community-based physical activity referral schemes have some impact on reducing sedentary behaviour in the short-term, but which is unlikely to be sustained and lead to benefits in terms of health.
We conclude that the crossed pinning fixation is more at risk for iatrogenic ulnar nerve injury than the lateral pinning technique. Therefore, we recommend the lateral pinning technique for supracondylar fractures of the humerus in children.
IL-6 may be mediating the effect of metal particulates on AC.
The high rate of occult metastasis (23%) following elective neck dissection, which did not confer additional healthcare costs, leads to the recommendation of elective neck dissection in patients with cT1N0 oral tongue squamous cell carcinoma.
The findings are consistent with the tenets of achievement goal theory that success and failure are subjective psychological states. It is recommended that different conceptions of competence are considered in the study of self-esteem.
z-scores allow the use of a single cut-off value at all cTn levels, for both cTnI and cTnT and for sensitive and highly sensitive assays, with comparable diagnostic performances. This strategy of reporting significant changes as z-scores may obviate the need for the empirical development of assay-specific cut-off rules to define significant troponin changes.
Hyponatremia and natriuresis were present in most patients after neurosurgery; however, the atrial natriuretic factor cannot be considered to be directly responsible for these alterations in neurosurgery patients. Other natriuretic factors are likely to be involved.
Pre-pregnancy Medicaid coverage appears to be associated with early initiation of prenatal care. Almost a decade after welfare reform, it is essential to preserve the Medicaid expansions for pregnant women, foster Medicaid family planning waivers, and promote access to primary care and early prenatal care, particularly for very low-income women.
Flow velocities, FA of refocusing pulse, TE, and PROPELLER technique significantly affected the degree of FHVs. Optimized MR parameters should be used consistently in future studies, which may provide more reliable results.
Results suggest PNCA may be a feasible and effective alternative to COI for pain management in postsurgical infants in the NICU. Results also suggest PNCA may provide more individualized care for this vulnerable population and in doing so, may potentially reduce opioid consumption; however, more studies are needed.
When considering a MOM THR, the use of a monoblock large-head system leads to higher elevations in whole blood metal ions and offers no advantage over a smaller head modular system.
This is the first documentation of IPD from an NT strain confirmed to lack all known capsule genes. Most NT IPD isolates have or had the capacity to produce capsule, whereas a majority of NT carriage isolates lack this capacity. We found no evidence of pneumococcal adaptation to PCV7 via downregulation or deletion of vaccine-serotype capsule genes.
This pilot study demonstrates that undergraduate paramedic students from an Australian university were unable to accurately interpret a patient's conscious state if their GCS score was<14. These findings have provided academic staff with important information for considering alternative teaching and learning strategies and approaches in conscious state assessment in current paramedic curricula.
Persistent organ failure early in the course of acute pancreatitis is a major determinant of outcome. In combination with pancreatic necrosis, survival rate is strongly compromised.
The findings confirm previous observations that low-frequency, low-intensity rTMS to motor cortex can produce transient depression of MEP excitability. Since there was no effect on spinal H-reflexes, this is consistent with the idea that some of the suppression occurs because of an effect on the motor cortex itself. The lack of any conditioning effect on MEPs evoked in actively contracting muscle is not readily consistent with the idea that rTMS depresses transmission in synaptic connections to pyramidal cells activated by the test TMS pulse. An alternative explanation is that rTMS reduces the excitability of cortical neurones in relaxed subjects, so that responses to a given input are smaller than before conditioning. Voluntary contraction normalises excitability levels so that the effect is no longer seen.
Work engagement was significantly associated with work ability even after adjusting for various factors, indicating its importance in promoting work ability. Other key factors for good work ability were frequent exercise, good sleep, non-smoking, low job demands, low physical workload, and high task resources. More specifically, this study suggests that in maintaining work ability, it is valuable not only to promote lifestyle factors or working conditions, but also to enhance employees' positive state of work engagement.
Differences in the use of recommended therapies by physician specialty are generally small and do not explain differences in patient outcome. In comparison, differences among patients treated by physicians of various specialties (case mix) have a large impact on patient outcome and may account for the residual survival advantage of patients treated by cardiologists. With the exception of the in-hospital use of aspirin, recommended MI therapies are markedly underused, regardless of the specialty of the physician.
NCEP ATP III criteria, applied to an Asian population, will underestimate the population at risk. With a lower waist circumference cutoff, the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome is comparable to that in Western populations. Ethnic differences are likely to exist between populations across Asia.
While routine evaluation of children with elevated central apnea index by MRI is not indicated, providers should consider neuroimaging in children with CSA and abnormal neurologic examination findings or gastroesophageal reflux disease. Further research is necessary to identify other tests with improved diagnostic yield for evaluation of pediatric CSA.
These findings suggest that genetic and familial factors may account for the relationship between increased weight and poor mental health.
There seems to be a strong relationship between mothers and daughters menopausal age.
Fatal complications after pacemaker and implantable cardioverter-defibrillator implantation attributable to medical malpractice are extremely rare. The study illustrates the importance of a medico-legal autopsy in alleged fatal malpractice cases.
This clinical study showed that patients with thoracolumbar osteomyelitis can successfully undergo anterior surgery with insertion of titanium mesh cage and posterior instrumented fusion performed sequentially on the same day under one anesthesia. The presence of the mesh cage anteriorly at the site of spondylitis had no negative influence on the course of infection healing, and additionally it stabilized the affected segment maintaining sufficient sagittal profile.
CH and CRF are significantly reduced in patients with NAION, possibly indirectly reflecting structural weakness in the lamina cribrosa.
These data highlight the extreme vulnerability of infants with the 'double hits' of prematurity and heart defects.
Understanding the drivers of well-being among adults, including older adults, is of high policy importance. Attention should be focused on improvements in population health and functioning and on encouraging younger and older people to develop and maintain social support networks and engagement in social activities.
Conservative management by immediate endoscopic closure with clips can be effective for the treatment of colonic perforations detected during colonoscopy. Conservative management also may be tried cautiously for stable patients who have radiologically proven colonoscopy-associated perforations without endoscopic evidence.
Weight loss after PGB and SGB is not statistically significantly different. Otherwise, operative time, hospital stay, complications, and revision rate are statistically significantly higher after SGB (p < 0.001).
The measurement of PImax at the mouth during exercise represents an additional parameter that can be used to refine risk stratification of lung resection candidates and to identify patients who may benefit from inspiratory muscle training.
Despite the confirmation of physical and chemical stability within BP limits, the discoloration and the potential for photodegradants to cause adverse effects in patients must lead us to draw the conclusion that the quality of this medication has been compromised. Pharmacists thus need to take this into account in repackaging and storage of prochlorperazine in DAAs and advise patients to store their DAA protected from light, heat and humidity.
No current standard exists regarding the utilisation of infant laryngoscope blades in the A&E department. The first line blade available should be a C shaped blade (Miller, Oxford, Robert-shaw, or Wisconsin). Other blade designs should be kept for use only by more experienced personnel or in difficult intubation situations. Intubation training must focus on correct technique and regular assessment is essential.
Worry may be a less important construct in relation to disease prevention behaviors such as smoking cessation. More experimental studies comparing different behaviors are needed to determine the causal relationship between worry and outcomes.
There are indications that the use of the MiniScan contributes to symptom reduction.
A well-planned ESWL procedure is a safe and effective treatment in urinary stones and causes no detectable harmful effect on the hearing function of treated patients.
F can predict result of T in mitral PVT. PVT with F evidence of hypomobile leaflet always recovers regardless of symptom duration and extent of disc motion reduction, suggesting that the small amount of thrombus needed to interfere with discs motion in bileaflet prostheses remains sensitive to T even after a long time. PVT with F evidence of blocked leaflet has a favorable response to T only in case of early PVT. Late PVT with blocked leaflet does not respond to T, suggesting a larger and stratified thrombus and the coexistence of pannus and, in our series, always required surgery. However, if a hypomobile leaflet coexists, T may be used to restore normal movement of hypomobile leaflet so that to improve patient clinical and hemodynamic condition before operation.
Pediatricians underrecognize FASDs, lack confidence in making this diagnosis, and are unfamiliar with the diagnostic criteria. They need more training to consider the possibility of an FASD when seeing children with developmental and behavioral problems.
Poor outcome in patients with lobar hemorrhage is associated with a hemorrhage size of more than 40 cm(3), GCS less than or equal to 13, but also dependent on time interval between ictus and presentation. This is consistent with prior studies demonstrating deterioration from enlargement may occur when patients present early on. Stupor and septum pellucidum shift greater than 6 mm on CT scan at presentation predict a hopeless outcome in conservatively treated patients. Ninety-one percent of patients were treated medically, thus these outcomes are largely a reflection of the natural history of spontaneous lobar hemorrhage. These signs may influence triage and management decisions.
Beta-receptor downregulation due to congestive heart failure has an impact on the postoperative course in children with congenital disease and depends on heart failure therapy.
Work-related well-being predicts general wellbeing in the long-term. For example, burnout predicts depressive symptoms and not vice versa. In addition, burnout and work engagement are not direct opposites. Instead, both have unique, incremental impacts on life satisfaction and depressive symptoms.
Differences in frontal lobe GI might reflect disturbed or abnormal connectivity predictive of subsequent schizophrenia.
Gb3 is not an ideal marker of Fabry disease or the response to treatment in all patients. Plasma and urine levels of Gb3 cannot be used as a marker of Fabry disease in patients with the N215S mutation and many heterozygotes do not have elevated Gb3 levels in plasma. The urine concentration is more informative in heterozygotes and can be used as a measure of the response to therapy. The fall in Gb3 levels in patients receiving ERT was not sustained in some patients, despite a clinical improvement. Additionally, Gb3 cannot be used to monitor the response to treatment in patients who initially have normal plasma and urine concentrations of this glycolipid.
Our study demonstrates excellent agreement with no evidence of a clinically important bias between venous and capillary serum 25OHD concentrations measured by LC/MS-MS over a wide range of values. Under those conditions, capillary blood is therefore adequate for the measurement of 25OHD.
Continuous antibiotic prophylaxis was ineffective in reducing the rate of pyelonephritis recurrence and the incidence of renal damage in children who were younger than 30 months and had vesicoureteral reflux grades II through IV.
This study shows that MNCV, which is often assessed in clinical trials of neuropathy, can predict foot ulceration and death in diabetes. In addition, tests of PPT and medial arterial calcification can be used in the clinic to predict LLA in diabetic subjects.
Thoracic epidurals are widely taught in the United States. Most programs teach lumbar before thoracic epidurals. Thoracic epidurals are safe to teach without prior experience with lumbar epidurals.
Drug misuse appears to enhance the microglial activation resulting from HIV infection in some individuals. Other factors such as the severity of HIVE, or systemic immune factors, are also likely to affect the degree of microglial activation. The implications for drug-using patients who survive long term with HIV/AIDS are discussed, particularly in relation to premature neurodegeneration.
Published success rates are much better than current success rates in a large single centre. It is possible that the information regarding outcome given to patients during the consent process is not accurate.
The prevalence of diagnosed depressive disorders was comparable between demented and non-demented residents. However, demented residents suffered more from mood symptoms and may be at risk of under-diagnosis of depression.
Combined consumption of wine and olive oil provided beneficial postprandial effects on haemodynamics. These findings reveal an additional favourable effect of components of the Mediterranean diet on haemodynamics in the postprandial state.
Based on this preliminary investigation, high serum FGF23 levels would seem suggestive of the potential occurrence of cardiac vascular complications in children with KD.
The hypothesis was supported. More than half (56%) of the adolescents we studied with ASCUS cytology had SIL histology. The findings suggest that immediate colposcopic evaluation may be prudent for adolescents with ASCUS cytology that cannot be attributed to concurrent lower genital tract infections.
In women with antepartum HELLP syndrome delivered by cesarean section the frequency of wound complications is not influenced by type of skin incision or time of skin closure (primary or delayed).
Laterally wedged insoles unload the medial compartment only at baseline in patients with varus alignment and by an amount that might not be clinically important. No biomechanical alteration was seen after 6 weeks of wearing the insole. Valgus brace therapy did not result in any biomechanical alteration. Taken together, this study does not show a clinically relevant biomechanical effect of insole and brace therapy in patients with varus medial knee OA.
We suggest that middle ear inflammations in childhood may affect mastoid size but, the anatomic relationships of the auditory tube, mastoid and middle ear that form a functional unit may not be significantly important in chronic ear disease.
Given the high burden of TB in India, a 0.9% additional yield of smear-positive sputum smears at the end of treatment translates to 3,297 cases of smear-positive PTB. End-of-treatment smear is a low-yield strategy for detection of smear-positive TB cases, although further studies are needed to determine its population-level impact and cost, particularly in relation to other TB control interventions.
Although peer educators are natural leaders with strong self-esteem and more healthy behaviors, they appear to be quite similar to their audiences in regard to values and temperaments, making them successful role models and arguably true peers.
Genetic lineages often differed between early and advanced TUBs. MYC-/TP53+ and MYC + and/or TP53- may be the signatures of dormant and aggressive TUBs, respectively, in the stomach.
Splenectomy was independently associated with increased mortality in patients with moderate or severe TBI. This finding warrants further investigation regarding splenic preservation in patients with TBI.
Car accidents are infrequent in patients implanted with an ICD, and - in any case - not more frequent than in the general population. The old guidelines need to be updated and specific restrictions on car driving in ICD patients need to be revised to reflect the current data.
GERD-related questionnaires could be used in obese population as preoperative screening tool for GERD. However, our results indicate that the quality of life of obese patients is not affected by the existence of GERD.
As a result of increased awareness, the nation-wide rate of detection of BVI has doubled in recent years. However, BVI-S rates and functional outcome have not improved, raising questions about the available treatment protocols.
This study shows a previously unreported aggregate relationship between number of treatments and total healthcare charges in a single urban safety-net hospital. Given the sample size available and the heterogeneity of the patient population, no statistically significant associations could be established between initiation of acupuncture treatment and charges. However, some suggestive patterns were observed. Further prospective studies with a matched-group control are warranted to further explore this relationship. Additional study across wider locations is warranted to best guide practitioners and hospitals in designing efficacious, high-value integrative medicine programs.
The CDC HRQOL-4 is a psychometrically sound, rapid, and efficient instrument whose HRQOL profile reflects the symptom burden of moderate-to-severe IBS, is sensitive to treatment effects associated with cognitive behavior therapy, and is not a proxy for personality variables identified as potential confounders of HRQOL. HRQOL is related to but not redundant with psychological distress.
Ongoing monitoring of junior doctors' prescribing ability has demonstrated improvements which may be due to local and national training initiatives.
In case of MSAF, fetal scalp blood sampling did not reduce the risk of RDS.
Nurse-led mental health liaison services which accept all screened cases from acute medical wards are unlikely to be effective in reducing general psychiatric morbidity. Services which focus on the prevention of delirium and target particular patient groups or disorders such as depression are more likely to be effective.
Our results support the role of HP in ITP of children, and urea breath test or Ag detection of HP in stool of these patients is recommended.
Liver re-transplantation in non-hepatitis C patients, although life saving, has significantly inferior patient and graft survival compared to primary liver transplantation. Higher quality grafts are used inefficiently in a sicker patient population, suggesting that a more optimal strategy may include restricting their use to patients who obtain a longer term benefit.
There might be important differences in HBP measured using validated wrist devices with position sensor vs. arm devices, and these could impact decisions relating to the patient in clinical practice. Measurements taken using arm devices are more closely related to ABP values than those recorded by wrist devices. More research is needed before recommending the widespread use of wrist monitors in clinical practice. American Journal of Hypertension doi:10.1038/ajh.2008.176American Journal of Hypertension (2008); 21, 7, 753-758. doi:10.1038/ajh.2008.176.
Scientists from other countries represent the first line of defense against emerging infectious diseases, but their publications on Blastocystis are not well known in the United States and Europe. With the publication of corroborating research by Western scientists in core scientific journals, it is hoped that an appropriate response from the public health system will be forthcoming. Investigation into the existence of infection in the groups mentioned with sensitive and specific tests should be performed. Such tests could include a serum antibody test and a Polymerase Chain Reaction test specific to the pathogenic variant.
The PCAMT is considered to have the potential of being a useful instrument for identifying referred children whose mothers may not attend for treatment and possibly for identifying those mothers who would benefit most from concentrating on attending and observation skills in child management training.
Using lidocaine may be recommended as an effective, safe, and inexpensive adjuvant to morphine in improving nausea and reducing the time needed to achieve pain and nausea relief in patients visiting the ED with acute RC.
Two Lenke 1A curve patterns can be described based on the direction of the L4 tilt. This distinction has ramifications regarding selection of fusion levels and assessing surgical outcomes. The A and B lumbar modifiers do not describe 2 distinct curve types within the Lenke 1 group; however, the tilt direction of L4 does allow subdivision of the Lenke 1A curves into 2 distinguishable patterns (1A-R and 1A-L). The 1A-L curves are similar to 1B curves and different in form and treatment from the 1A-R pattern.
Advance directives and route of admission do not appear to impact the cost of terminal hospitalization for cancer patients.
For those patients with echogenic bile, ultrasound is highly specific for the detection of crystals, although the sensitivity is low. By contrast, those patients with hypoechoic bile at ultrasound would need a further investigation to exclude the presence of crystals.
HBPM presented good agreement with ABPM and can be used as a complementary method in the follow-up of resistant hypertensive patients, particularly in those with controlled ambulatory BPs.
The criteria used to diagnose primary SS are controversial, but both diagnostic and quantitative immunohistochemical criteria suggest that these patients, with lacrimal gland enlargement resulting from lymphocytic infiltration, represent a new subtype of primary SS. This is clinically important in view of the increased risk of lymphoma associated with SS, compared with idiopathic nonspecific lacrimal inflammation.
Psychosis-related words were less threatening and less self-relevant to psychosis patients with less insight. This suggests that the lack of awareness such patients have of their illness is genuine and more likely to be mediated by lower-level information processing mechanisms than strategies such as conscious, motivated denial.
Hyperechoic masses are very rare and mostly benign. As an adjunct to mammography, the imaging findings reported here could help to avoid misdiagnosis for malignant hyperechoic lesion.
Our results revealed that omega-3 PUFAs can be considered as a safe adjunctive medication to the standard regimen before PCI for the aim of decreasing cardiovascular event after PCI.
In this large multi-institutional sample, initial disease burden remained a significant prognostic indicator despite R0. Complex surgery does not seem to affect survival when accounting for other confounding influences, particularly RD.
Neither SMBG testing nor its frequency was associated with glycemic benefit in type 2 diabetic patients regardless of treatment. Our data did not include methods of SMBG delivery and application, factors that require further assessment in the evaluation of SMBG utility in non-insulin-treated type 2 diabetes. SMBG may be still of value in the identification and prevention of hypoglycemia and in dose adjustment in insulin-treated patients.
When measured within 9 days, the 13-item NIHSS is highly associated with final outcome in terms of BI at 6 months post stroke. The moment of assessment beyond 2 days post stroke does not significantly affect the accuracy of prediction of ADL dependency at 6 months. The NIHSS can therefore be used at acute hospital stroke units for early rehabilitation management during the first 9 days post stroke, as the accuracy of prediction remained about 72%, irrespective of the moment of assessment.
Population differences in smoking initiation patterns can mask similarities in cessation rates.
The systemic-radial artery pressure gradient seen at the end of cardiopulmonary bypass seems to be a phenomenon common to patients with decreased hand vascular resistance. Wrist compression decreases or abolishes the gradient in most cases. It does not produce false positives, so an increase indicates a greater aortic than radial pressure. The difference is likely to be only temporary.
Tumor cavitation, pathologic stage IB, and being male are predictors of poor outcome for patients with stage I NSCLC who undergo resection.
Five days of treatment by DEX and a dose of 0.75 mg/kg/d induced a marked catabolic state.
An informational film as additional information to complement written and verbal information about prenatal testing does not appear to increase women's anxiety and worries. However, the informational film may cause worry at the time of viewing which should be taken into consideration.
Doppler-derived indexes, which have previously been recommended for the assessment of severity in chronic liver disease, are difficult to reproduce reliably and therefore have a limited clinical role in the noninvasive assessment of hepatic fibrosis or inflammation.
Behavioral/mental health conditions placed low-income children under age 6 at the highest risk of abuse or neglect. Developmental delay/mental retardation, however, did not appear to increase the risk of maltreatment, while chronic physical health conditions increased the risk slightly among this group of children. Therefore, identified behavior/mental health in young, low-income children should be considered a risk factor for potential abuse to pediatricians and other health professionals. Child protection agencies should be trained to identify behavioral/mental health conditions of children.
An OSCE station is a feasible way to examine written communication skills. Letter-writing skills appear to be distinct from knowledge (physical exam station), but somewhat linked to verbal communication skills.
The Discretionary and Traditional dietary pattern trajectories from 6 to 24 months of age, over the period when food patterns begin to emerge, are weakly associated with IQ in adolescence.
At least one third of the patients with EC carry serious co-morbidities with an increased surgical risk for complications. For this subgroup of patients, a laparoscopic-vaginal approach significantly reduces the rate of complications and should be the standard of surgical treatment.
Anti-CCP antibody is an important marker, independently associated with impaired left ventricular relaxation and the DAS-28-CRP(4v) is a more sensitive predictor of cardiac involvement in the RA than the DAS-28 variant including the ESR.
Our findings suggest that in addition to local deficits in the left auditory cortex and disturbed fronto-temporal connectivity, the interhemispheric auditory pathway might be involved in the pathogenesis of AVH.
This is the first report of an epigenetic modification in sperm after temozolomide treatment suggesting a potential risk for the offspring. A sperm cryopreservation before the initiation of temozolomide treatment should be recommended.
The results show that positive patch test reactions to euro coins can be obtained from nickel-sensitized individuals after 48 h of application to the palmar skin under occlusion. These results do not contradict other experiments in which repeated handling of coins was unable to provoke fingertip allergic contact dermatitis. A dose-response relationship is a credible explanation to support such potential discrepancies.
This study demonstrates the existence of a large body of clinical evidence on the use of PPIs in children. Regulatory agencies and ethical committees should cope with this issue for ethical reasons to avoid unnecessary trial replication.
Consumers obtain nutrition information from diet books. We found that over 67% of nutrition facts in a best-seller diet book may not be supported in the peer-reviewed literature. These findings have important implications for educating consumers about nutrition information sources.
The application of counteracting frontal plane moments for the conservative treatment of osteoarthritis can redistribute the forces and might slow down the progression of the disease.
Rats fed a diet with 57% energy from fat showed insulin resistance, hypertriglyceridemia, increased very low-density lipoprotein production, hepatic steatosis, and liver damage, and thus provide a good model for the early stages of NAFLD. Dietary CoQ9me, however, did not ameliorate the damaging effects of the high-fat diet.
The frequency of family meals was strongly an inverse association with childhood overweight or obesity. Therefore, we suggest that the intervention of childhood obesity should include family meals.
Supplementary oxygen did not increase fetal oxygenation in cases where the U-D interval was prolonged. Our data do not support the routine administration of supplementary oxygen during elective Caesarean section for this purpose.
Concentrations of isoflurane as low as 0.25 MAC are sufficient to precondition myocardium against infarction. High concentrations of isoflurane may have greater efficacy to protect myocardium during conditions of low coronary collateral blood flow.
The study provides empirical evidence that supports the inclusion of breast reduction surgery in NHS purchasing contracts.
Nonhydropic fetuses with a maximum CVR>1.0 are a subgroup of patients who are at increased risk for respiratory morbidity and the need for surgical intervention. These patients should be delivered at a tertiary care center with pediatric surgery expertise to ensure optimal clinical outcomes.
During LSIB performance US guidance alone produces block success rate identical to both US and NS guidance yet with a shorter block performance time.
There was no evidence that HIV infection reduced the plasma concentrations of antituberculosis drugs.
Administration of arginine-vasopressin during CPR does not improve behavioural and cerebral histopathological outcome, compared to the use of adrenaline or the combination of both vasopressors, after cardiac arrest in rats.
Despite NMSC not being life threatening in most cases, there is a significant proportion of patients, who have unmet supportive care needs and experience heightened distress levels. This study raises awareness for health care professionals to be vigilant about the supportive care needs and the psychological health of patients with non-melanoma skin cancer.
Patients with CIP and GBS seem to develop persistent impairment on long-term functional status and well-being, more clearly in CIP, reflecting the importance of long-term follow-up in further disease management.
Conventional doses of piperacillin/tazobactam may not offer adequate piperacillin exposure in febrile neutropenic patients. TDM provides useful feedback of dosing adequacy to guide dose optimization.
There were no differences between the PC patients with small and large prostate volumes treated with brachytherapy with respect to PSA failure rate, PC survival or overall survival. All patients, independent of prostate size, are potential candidates for brachytherapy.
Although more patients are dying while receiving inpatient care, these changes in site of death seem to reflect changing patient preferences. The net effect is that patients in this sample were more likely to die in the setting of their choice in 2012 than they were in 2008.
Maternal glucose metabolism is altered in nonhypertensive pregnancies, with a risk of delayed fetal growth; however, the fetal glucose response may remain normal in the face of fetal growth retardation.
An increase in CD11b expression is not required for an increase in neutrophil adhesion. The change in neutrophil adhesion produced by reperfusion plasma can be blocked by sICAM-1. Soluble ICAM-1 may have a physiological role in the regulation of neutrophil adhesion.
HbA1c ≥ 6.5% is highly specific in identifying people with DM, but it may miss the majority (66.8%) of the DM cases. An HbA1c threshold of<5.6% is more appropriate to be used for the exclusion of DM. OGTT should be performed for the confirmation of DM among Chinese patients with IFG who have an HbA1c between 5.6% and 6.4%.
The C-159-->T polymorphism in the CD14 gene could be a genetic marker associated with smoking dependence, but confirmation in a large population study is necessary.
Physician leaders reported that they often do not possess the knowledge to assist patients in managing out-of-pocket costs for prescription drugs and they depend on pharmacists to communicate patient preferences in making prescribing decisions. As a result, price preferences are communicated indirectly, likely less efficiently, rather than intentionally when prescribing decisions are made.
CT angiography with full visualisation of intracranial and upper cervical arteries could be used as a screening diagnostic procedure in these cases. Together with saccular aneurysms, fusiform aneurysms should be added to the IHS classification as aetiology for exertional recurrent headaches.
The insufficiency of hormonal theory to explain solely the pathogenesis of this tumor might reveal other potential factors that have not been discussed in earlier literature.
Preliminary results indicate that FDT performance deficits, which have previously been demonstrated in children with RD, are either small in magnitude or do not exist in adults. Thus, it is unlikely that RD will interfere with assessment for glaucoma using FDT perimetry.
Breast density is strongly associated with increased risk of breast cancer, even after taking into account reproductive and hormonal risk factors, whereas BMD, although a possible marker of lifetime exposure to estrogen, is not. Thus, a component of breast density that is independent of estrogen-mediated effects may contribute to breast cancer risk.
The current study suggests both that it is possible to conduct a substantive trial of the effects of educational films designed to reduce weight stigma on a larger cohort of trainee healthcare professionals, and that brief educational interventions may be effective in reducing stigmatizing attitudes in this population.
Simple detorsion, instead of traditionally advocated oophorectomy, was not accompanied by an increase in morbidity. On follow-up, almost all patients studied had functioning ovarian tissue despite the grave ischemia observed intraoperatively. Detorsion should be the procedure of choice for all cases of simple ovarian torsion in children.
More widespread consumer exposure has most likely led to the increase in primary sensitization to MI and subsequently to a rise in MCI/MI reactions resulting from immunological cross-reactions. A reduction in the maximum use concentration of MI seems advisable. MI should be patch tested in the baseline series.
No significant associations were found between NAFLD and LUTS in middle-aged men, and the degree of NAFLD was not significantly associated with the severity of LUTS in trend. The role of NAFLD, in comparison with age, might be too small to change the LUTS.
After 25 years of falling mortality in Australia, lifestyles can still be significantly improved to reduce heart disease even further.
The interpretation of the vitamin B-12 and folate status in patients with AD depends largely on the methodology (i.e., serum vitamin vs metabolite levels) and the selection of the control group. Although patients with AD have the highest tHcy and MMA levels, metabolically significant vitamin B-12 and folate deficiency is also a substantial problem in nondemented elderly patients.
MUC1, MUC2, MUC5AC, and MUC6 have the potential to be used as predictors of malignant transformation and invasion to mucosa or the muscularis mucosae in colorectal polyps. The most reliable predictions can be achieved by determining the level of expression of MUC1.
In this retrospective study, microvascular decompression surgery was an especially high-risk factor for PONV in patients undergoing craniotomy. It may be necessary to adopt a combination of prophylactic methods to reduce the incidence of PONV after microvascular decompression.
The ability of tepoxalin to suppress inflammation without causing gastric mucosal injury appears to be related to its differential suppression of prostaglandin synthesis in various tissues. Compounds that selectively inhibit prostaglandin synthesis at sites of inflammation may represent a class of anti-inflammatory drugs without detrimental effects on the stomach.
Metrics correlate well with GRS assessment, supporting concurrent validity. Metrics predict experience level as accurately as global rating and are construct valid. Hybrid simulators could provide resource-efficient feedback, freeing trainers to concentrate on teaching.
Impedance indices from the umbilical artery Doppler waveform decrease with advancing gestational age due, at least partially, to expansion of the placental vascular tree. Within narrow gestational age ranges in the third trimester, there is no meaningful correlation between fetal weight and impedance indices. It is therefore not necessary to adjust umbilical artery Doppler impedance indices to account for fetal size.
Women are underrepresented in leadership positions in obstetrics and gynecology, and this cannot be explained by historical sex imbalances among physicians entering our specialty.
Adopting a lower threshold to define microalbuminuria could prove to be cost-effective for assessing cardiovascular risk in hypertensive patients.
On the basis of parental reports, CHCs received similar ratings to other primary care providers for family-centered, comprehensive, and compassionate care, but lower ratings for accessibility. Further studies should examine strategies for practice transformation in CHCs to improve patient satisfaction and accessibility to optimize child health outcomes.
The indices of pretreatment apoptosis and Ki-67 predict a favorable outcome in bladder cancer patients treated with TUR-BT and RCT. Molecular markers may help to select patients for an organ-sparing approach.
The Healthy Pregnant data set was not representative of the general pregnant population in the northern part of the Netherlands. Specifically, the exposure to (chronic) drugs was underestimated, possibly a result of second-line care on the basis of medical indication. Thus, continuous investigation of options for improvement of the Healthy Pregnant database is required.
Our study results suggest that QT dynamicity is impaired in patients with HCM and may help to differentiate among low- and high-risk patients. Further studies are needed to elucidate the prognostic significance and clinical implications of impaired ventricular repolarization in patients with HCM.
Journals seem to prefer reporting significant results; this might be because of authors' perceptions of the importance of their findings and editors' and reviewers' preferences for significant results. The implication of this factor in the reliability of systematic reviews is discussed.
Most OTC OPD instructions are written above the recommended sixth grade level and lower, printed in a font size smaller than suggested and illustrated inadequately to foster successful patient education.
The patients in the European LionHeart Clinical Utility Baseline Study (CUBS) trial had less sepsis and less overall DRI compared with the REMATCH LVAD group. Therefore, the fully implanted device may cause less infection than PC devices during destination therapy (DT). Although lower for DT, these rates are still higher than for some BTT experiences. Areas for future improvement include miniaturization of controller/battery components to reduce wound complications related to pocket size, and installation of more modern lithium-ion batteries to decrease the need for re-operations due to battery end-of-life.
This study suggests that screening volunteers have a statistically significantly higher rate of organ-confined prostate cancers, and a statistically significantly lower rate of extracapsular extension and positive surgical margins than their counterparts in the referral group even in the same PSA range. As the pathological stage and surgical margin status are significant predictors of recurrence, these findings support the concept of PSA screening.
This research demonstrated a considerable increase in the Treg cell pool after progesterone treatment. This indicates a possible mechanism for progesterone treatment benefits in preterm labor, potentially increasing its more rational use.
Home mailed urine specimen collection in conjunction with a self-completed postal questionnaire is feasible. This could provide a viable basis both for determining population Chlamydia prevalence and for a UK Chlamydia population screening strategy. Overall cost effectiveness of such a strategy will depend on the cost of the test used. Comparative performance characteristics of the different currently available tests in this setting have yet to be fully determined.
The findings of this study supported the hypothesis that families participating in ABA experienced elevated depressive symptoms, much like any family raising a child with an ASD, suggesting a potential area for family-level intervention. Additionally, ABA intensity related to maternal depression and personal strain, and therefore deserves continued attention. Future studies should attempt to replicate these findings with a larger and more representative sample and seek to identify mechanisms through which ABA intensity may influence maternal and family well-being.
Dissection techniques in the groin did not influence the clinical and sonographic result at 3 months and at 7 years after redo surgery for recurrent varicose veins.
Although slightly affected, this study suggests that we can trust GAT IOP-measurements in eyes with intracameral air, such as after DSEK/DMEK operations. Ultrasound-based methods such as ART should not be used.
The interventions have resulted in a large fall in clinic waiting times, improvement in lipid results, and high rate of general practice follow-up, all of which have been sustained in the long term.
This study provides evidence to suggest that the RA can be safely harvested for use as a conduit in coronary artery bypass grafting, with no significant short-term deterioration in hand function.
A sensitive, non-invasive, interval screening test might be useful to predetermine the need for colonoscopy in this at-risk population and minimize unnecessary examinations. This favourable retrospective evaluation will be extended to a prospective study.
The use of an online information retrieval system was associated with a significant improvement in the quality of answers provided by clinicians to typical clinical problems. In a small proportion of cases, use of the system produced errors. While there was variation in the performance of clinical groups when answering questions unaided, performance did not differ significantly following system use. Online information retrieval systems can be an effective tool in improving the accuracy of clinicians' answers to clinical questions.
The lesser statistical precision limits the usefulness of instrumental variable analysis in a study that might be of sufficient size for conventional analyses, even if a strong and plausible instrument is available.
Self-HPV sampling compares favourably with physician-sampling and cytology. A rapid, affordable, HPV self-test kit can be used as the primary method of cervical cancer screening in low-resource situations.
Children with early onset otitis media (birth to three years) tend to be at greater risk for delayed reading than age-matched controls.
The modified biceps angle, as measured on MRI, was significantly higher in patients who demonstrated engagement on physical examination than in those who did not. This supports the theory that the location of the Hill-Sachs lesion may play a role in engagement and may be its most important characteristic when determining its significance.
These data suggested that moderate-drinking postmenopausal women are not significantly healthier than their non- or heavier-drinking peers, but may drink as part of a larger effort to take care of their health. Despite this, even 1-drink-per-drinking-day moderate drinkers may have tendencies toward unhealthy conditions. Limitations include small sample size, inability to assess specific cardiac risk and socioeconomic status, small number of correlations, and clinical relevance of analyte values.
Identification rates of ARM nodes can be improved by injecting the blue dye in the upper medial aspect of the arm at the time of induction. Majority of the arm nodes lie between the axillary vein and the first intercostobrachial nerve. It is difficult to preserve the ARM nodes in patients of LABC, who have had good response to NACT and in patients of LABC with poor response to NACT, the incidence of metastasis in ARM nodes is quite high. Therefore, ARM is not a feasible option in patients with locally advanced breast cancer.
ESD may be a feasible treatment for selected patients with undifferentiated EGC; this should be validated by development of new criteria for ESD for treatment of EGC.
These results provide evidence that occupational solvent exposure may be associated with an increased risk of SSc.
CVD risk as a function of HDL-C phenotypes is modulated by other components of the lipid panel.
Our data demonstrate that, for selected octogenarians, double valve replacement can be performed with acceptable outcome. A better performance status of the patients at the time of cardiac surgery will probably improve 1-year survival.
This study points to the need to include perspectives of at-risk communities as we move toward wider use of this technology.
Although recent research in this field identified the pediatric RIFLE criterion as the most sensitive indicator of acute kidney injury, the results of this study suggest the pediatric RIFLE criterion overestimates acute kidney injury incidence and that the Acute Kidney Injury Network criterion is the more accurate diagnostic indicator.
This study shows a strong association between urinary Cd levels and the excretion rates of LMWPs in patients with ALF. A causal relationship is possible but could not be fully demonstrated in this study.
