SUBJECTIVE: , The patient has NG tube in place for decompression.  She says she is feeling a bit better.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  She is afebrile.  Pulse is 58 and blood pressure is 110/56.,SKIN:  There is good skin turgor.,GENERAL:  She is not in acute distress.,CHEST:  Clear to auscultation.  There is good air movement bilaterally.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  First and second sounds are heard.  No murmurs appreciated.,ABDOMEN:  Less distended.  Bowel sounds are absent.,EXTREMITIES:  She has 3+ pedal swelling.,NEUROLOGICAL:  The patient is alert and oriented x3.  Examination is nonfocal.,LABORATORY DATA:,  White count is down from 20,000 to 12.5, hemoglobin is 12, hematocrit 37, and platelets 199,000.  Glucose is 157, BUN 14, creatinine 0.6, sodium is 131, potassium is 4.0, and CO2 is 31.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Small bowel obstruction/paralytic ileus, rule out obstipation.  Continue with less aggressive decompression.  Follow surgeon's recommendation.,2.  Pulmonary fibrosis, status post biopsy.  Manage as per pulmonologist.,3.  Leukocytosis, improving.  Continue current antibiotics.,4.  Bilateral pedal swelling.  Ultrasound of the lower extremity negative for DVT.,5.  Hyponatremia, improving.,6.  DVT prophylaxis.,7.  GI prophylaxis.
REASON FOR CONSULTATION: , Clogged AV shunt.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  This is a 32-year-old African-American male who came to ABCD General Hospital with the above chief complaint.  The patient complains of fatigue, nausea, vomiting and fever.  The patient states that the shunt was placed in February, although according to medical records it was placed in April and it has been periodically clogging since its placement.  The patient had dialysis today, which is Saturday, for approximately one hour before the shunt no longer worked.  The patient had been seen in the Emergency Room yesterday, 08/29/03, by Dr. X for the same problem.  At that time, Dr. X felt that the patient should use the AV fistula during dialysis and after the fistula is able to be used, the PermCath on the right subclavian should be removed.  As mentioned above, he had dialysis today and they were unable to use AV fistula as well as the PermCath read "did not work".  The patient has had dialysis since January secondary to hypertension-induced renal failure.  He takes dialysis Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at the ABCD Dialysis Center.  He also was seen at XYZ and he had an apparent thrombectomy with reversal done a few days ago.  The patient's history at this point is a little sketchy; however, he states that he left AMA.  All other systems are reviewed and are negative.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Significant for heart attack, chronic renal failure with dialysis, CHF, hypertension, and PermCath.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: , AV fistula on the left arm and a PermCath.,ALLERGIES: , Penicillin.,MEDICATIONS: , Include metoprolol 100 mg two tablets b.i.d., Tylenol #3, Accupril 20 mg q.d., digoxin, Renocaps, aspirin, and Combivent.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , Half pack of tobacco x3 years.  No alcohol, occasional marijuana, and no IV drug use.  He lives alone, single and no children.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , Vital signs:  In Emergency Room, temperature 98.2, pulse 83, respirations 20, blood pressure 146/84 and 99% on room air.  General:  This is an alert and oriented African-American male x3 and in no acute distress.  The patient is extremely lethargic and had to be aroused multiple times to answer questions.  Mucous membranes are moist.  HEENT:  Head is normocephalic and atraumatic.  There is no scleral icterus noted.  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular muscles are intact.  Cardiovascular:  Shows a heart rate that is regular with a laterally displaced point of maximum intensity.  There is no murmur, gallop, or rub noted.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No wheeze, rhonchi or rales.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender and nondistended.  Bowel sounds are present.  Extremities:  Show left forearm with an incision that is well healed from a left AV fistula.  There is a distal thrill palpable and there is some tenderness over the incisional area.  There is no erythema or pus noted.  Other extremities show peripheral pulses present and no edema.,LABORATORY VALUES: , Sodium 139, potassium 3.9, chloride 92, CO2 33, BUN 36, creatinine 9.2, and glucose 131.  Digoxin 0.6, white count is 5.8, hemoglobin 11.7, hematocrit 34.9 and platelets are 252.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Nonfunctional AV fistula.,2.  End-stage renal disease.,3.  Hypertension.,4.  Status post MI.,5.  Clogged PermCath.,PLAN:,1.  Give the patient TPA to the shunt, PermCath in both feet.,2.  To board for Tuesday for shunt repair if needed.,3.  To dialyze as soon as possible.,4.  To review previous operative report.,5.  The patient will be contacted in the morning and told whether to go to dialysis or not.
REASON FOR CONSULTATION:,  Newly diagnosed head and neck cancer.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a very pleasant 61-year-old gentleman who was recently diagnosed with squamous cell carcinoma of the base of the tongue bilaterally and down extension into the right tonsillar fossa.  He was also noted to have palpable level 2 cervical lymph nodes.  His staging is T3 N2c M0 Stage IV invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.  The patient comes in to the clinic today after radiation Oncology consultation.  His Otolaryngologist performed a direct laryngoscopy with biopsy on July 29, 2010.  The patient reports that in December-January timeframe, he had noted some difficulty swallowing and ear pain.  He had a work up by his local physician that was relatively negative, and he was treated for gastroesophageal reflux disease.  His symptoms continued to progress, and he developed difficulty with his speech, dysphagia, otalgia and odynophagia.  He was then referred to Dr. X and examination revealed a mass at the right base of the tongue that extended across the midline to include the left base of the tongue as well as posterior extension involved in the right tonsillar fossa.  He was noted to have bilateral neck nodes.  His biopsy was positive for squamous cell carcinoma.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Significant for mild hypertension.  He has had cataract surgery, gastroesophageal reflux disease and a history of biceps tendon tear.,ALLERGIES: ,  Penicillin.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS: , Lisinopril/hydrochlorothiazide 20/25 mg q.d., alprazolam 0.5 mg q.d., omeprazole 20 mg b.i.d., Lortab 7.5/500 mg q 4h p.r.n.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Significant for father who has stroke and grandfather with lung cancer.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , The patient is married but has been separated from his wife for many years, they remain close, and they have two adult sons.  He is retired from the Air Force, currently works for Lockheed Martin.  He was born and raised in New York.  He does have a smoking history, about a 20 pack-year history and he reports quitting on July 27.  He does drink alcohol socially. No use of illicit drugs.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  ,The patient's chief complaint is fatigue.  He has difficulty swallowing and dysphagia.  He is responding well to Lortab and Tylenol for pain control.  He denies any chest pain, shortness of breath, fevers, chills and night sweats.  The rest of his review of systems is negative.,PHYSICAL EXAM:,VITALS:
REASON FOR CONSULTATION: , Thyroid mass diagnosed as papillary carcinoma.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,The patient is a 16-year-old young lady, who was referred from the Pediatric Endocrinology Department by Dr. X for evaluation and surgical recommendations regarding treatment of a mass in her thyroid, which has now been proven to be papillary carcinoma on fine needle aspiration biopsy.  The patient's parents relayed that they first noted a relatively small but noticeable mass in the middle portion of her thyroid gland about 2004.  An ultrasound examination had reportedly been done in the past and the mass is being observed.  When it began to enlarge recently, she was referred to the Pediatric Endocrinology Department and had an evaluation there.  The patient was referred for fine needle aspiration and the reports recently returned a diagnosis of papillary thyroid carcinoma.  The patient has not had any hoarseness, difficulty swallowing, or any symptoms of endocrine dysfunction.  She has no weight changes consistent with either hyper or hypothyroidism.  There is no family history of thyroid cancer in her family.  She has no notable discomfort with this lesion.  There have been no skin changes.  Historically, she does not have a history of any prior head and neck radiation or treatment of any unusual endocrinopathy.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Essentially unremarkable.  The patient has never been hospitalized in the past for any major illnesses.  She has had no prior surgical procedures.,IMMUNIZATIONS: , Current and up to date.,ALLERGIES: , She has no known drug allergies.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:  ,Currently taking no routine medications.  She describes her pain level currently as zero.,FAMILY HISTORY: , There is no significant family history, although the patient's father does note that his mother had a thyroid surgery at some point in life, but it was not known whether this was for cancer, but he suspects it might have been for goiter.  This was done in Tijuana.  His mom is from central portion of Mexico.  There is no family history of multiple endocrine neoplasia syndromes.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,The patient is a junior at Hoover High School.  She lives with her mom in Fresno.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , A careful 12-system review was completely normal except for the problems related to the thyroid mass.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  The patient is a 55.7 kg, nondysmorphic, quiet, and perhaps slightly apprehensive young lady, who was in no acute distress.  She was alert and oriented x3 and had an appropriate affect.,HEENT:  The head and neck examination is most significant.  There is mild amount of facial acne.  The patient's head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat appeared to be grossly normal.,NECK:  There is a slightly visible midline bulge in the region of the thyroid isthmus.  A firm nodule is present there, and there is also some nodularity in the right lobe of the thyroid.  This mass is relatively hard, slightly fixed, but not tethered to surrounding tissues, skin, or muscles that I can determine.  There are some shotty adenopathy in the area.  No supraclavicular nodes were noted.,CHEST:  Excursions are symmetric with good air entry.,LUNGS:  Clear.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Normal.  There is no tachycardia or murmur noted.,ABDOMEN:  Benign.,EXTREMITIES:  Extremities are anatomically correct with full range of motion.,GENITOURINARY:  External genitourinary exam was deferred at this time and can be performed later during anesthesia.  This is same as too for her rectal examination.,SKIN:  There is no acute rash, purpura, or petechiae.,NEUROLOGIC:  Normal and no focal deficits.  Her voice is strong and clear.  There is no evidence of dysphonia or vocal cord malfunction.,DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES: , I reviewed laboratory data from the Diagnostics Lab, which included a mild abnormality in the AST at 11, which is slightly lower than the normal range.  T4 and TSH levels were recorded as normal.  Free thyroxine was normal, and the serum pregnancy test was negative.  There was no level of thyroglobulin recorded on this.  A urinalysis and comprehensive metabolic panel was unremarkable.  A chest x-ray was obtained, which I personally reviewed.  There is a diffuse pattern of tiny nodules in both lungs typical of miliary metastatic disease that is often seen in patients with metastatic thyroid carcinoma.,IMPRESSION/PLAN: , The patient is a 16-year-old young lady with a history of thyroid mass that is now biopsy proven as papillary.  The pattern of miliary metastatic lesions in the chest is consistent with this diagnosis and is unfortunate in that it generally means a more advanced stage of disease.  I spent approximately 30 minutes with the patient and her family today discussing the surgical aspects of the treatment of this disease.  During this time, we talked about performing a total thyroidectomy to eradicate as much of the native thyroid tissue and remove the primary source of the cancer in anticipation of radioactive iodine therapy.  We talked about sentinel node dissection, and we spent significant amount of time talking about the possibility of hypoparathyroidism if all four of the parathyroid glands were damaged during this operation.  We also discussed the recurrent laryngeal and external laryngeal branches of the nerve supplying the vocal cord function and how they cane be damaged during the thyroidectomy as well.  I answered as many of the family's questions as they could mount during this stressful time with this recent information supplied to them.  I also did talk to them about the chest x-ray pattern, which was complete __________ as the film was just on the day prior to my clinic visit.  This will have some impact on the postoperative adjunctive therapy.  The radiologist commented about the risk of pulmonary fibrosis and the use of radioactive iodine in this situation, but it seems likely that is going to be necessary to attempt to treat this disease in the patient's case.  I did discuss with them the possibility of having to take large doses of calcium and vitamin D in the event of hypoparathyroidism if that does happen, and we also talked about possibly sparing parathyroid tissue and reimplanting it in a muscle belly either in the neck or forearm if that becomes a necessity.  All of the family's questions have been answered.  This is a very anxious and anxiety provoking time in the family.  I have made every effort to get the patient under schedule within the next 48 hours to have this operation done.  We are tentatively planning on proceeding this upcoming Friday afternoon with total thyroidectomy.
PROBLEMS LIST:,1.  Nonischemic cardiomyopathy.,2.  Branch vessel coronary artery disease.,3.  Congestive heart failure, NYHA Class III.,4.  History of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia.,5.  Hypertension.,6.  Hepatitis C.,INTERVAL HISTORY: , The patient was recently hospitalized for CHF exacerbation and was discharged with increased medications.  However, he did not fill his prescriptions and came back with persistent shortness of breath on exertion and on rest.  He has history of orthopnea and PND.  He has gained a few pounds of weight but denied to have any palpitation, presyncope, or syncope.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , Positive for right upper quadrant pain.  He has occasional nausea, but no vomiting.  His appetite has decreased.  No joint pain, TIA, seizure or syncope.  Other review of systems is unremarkable.,I reviewed his past medical history, past surgical history, and family history.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , He has quit smoking, but unfortunately was positive for cocaine during last hospital stay in 01/08.,ALLERGIES: , He has no known drug allergies.,MEDICATIONS:,  I reviewed his medication list in the chart.  He states he is compliant, but he was not taking the revised dose of medications as per discharge orders and prescription.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  Pulse 91 per minute and regular, blood pressure 151/102 in the right arm and 152/104 in the left arm, weight 172 pounds, which is about 6 pounds more than last visit in 11/07.  HEENT:  Atraumatic and normocephalic.  No pallor, icterus or cyanosis.  NECK:  Supple.  Jugular venous distention 5 cm above the clavicle present.  No thyromegaly.  LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation.  No rales or rhonchi.  Pulse ox was 98% on room air.  CVS:  S1 and S2 present.  S3 and S4 present.  ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.  Liver is palpable 5 cm below the right subcostal margin.  EXTREMITIES:  No clubbing or cyanosis.  A 1+ edema present.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,  The patient has hypertension, nonischemic cardiomyopathy, and branch vessel coronary artery disease.  Clinically, he is in NYHA Class III.  He has some volume overload and was not unfortunately taking Lasix as prescribed.  I have advised him to take Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.  I also increased the dose of hydralazine from 75 mg t.i.d. to 100 mg t.i.d.  I advised him to continue to take Toprol and lisinopril.  I have also added Aldactone 25 mg p.o. daily for survival advantage.  I reinforced the idea of not using cocaine.  He states that it was a mistake, may be somebody mixed in his drink, but he has not intentionally taken any cocaine.  I encouraged him to find a primary care provider.  He will come for a BMP check in one week.  I asked him to check his blood pressure and weight.  I discussed medication changes and gave him an updated list.  I have asked him to see a gastroenterologist for hepatitis C.  At this point, his Medicaid is pending.  He has no insurance and finds hard to find a primary care provider.  I will see him in one month.  He will have his fasting lipid profile, AST, and ALT checked in one week.
EXAM: , Chest PA & Lateral.,REASON FOR EXAM: , Shortness of breath, evaluate for pneumothorax versus left-sided effusion.,INTERPRETATION:  ,There has been interval development of a moderate left-sided pneumothorax with near complete collapse of the left upper lobe.  The lower lobe appears aerated.  There is stable, diffuse, bilateral interstitial thickening with no definite acute air space consolidation.  The heart and pulmonary vascularity are within normal limits.  Left-sided port is seen with Groshong tip at the SVC/RA junction.  No evidence for acute fracture, malalignment, or dislocation.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Interval development of moderate left-sided pneumothorax with corresponding left lung atelectasis.,2.  Rest of visualized exam nonacute/stable.,3.  Left central line appropriately situated and stable.,4.  Preliminary report was issued at time of dictation.  Dr. X was called for results.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Severe low back pain.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Severe low back pain.,OPERATIONS PERFORMED: , Anterior lumbar fusion, L4-L5, L5-S1, PEEK vertebral spacer, structural autograft from L5 vertebral body, BMP and anterior plate.,ANESTHESIA:,  General endotracheal.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Less than 50 mL.,DRAINS:,  None.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,PATHOLOGICAL FINDINGS:,  Dr. X made the approach and once we were at the L5-S1 disk space, we removed the disk and we placed a 13-mm PEEK vertebral spacer filled with a core of bone taken from the L5 vertebral body.  This was filled with a 15 x 20-mm Chronos VerteFill tricalcium phosphate plug.  At L4-L5, we used a 13-mm PEEK vertebral spacer with structural autograft and BMP, and then we placed a two-level 87-mm Integra sacral plate with 28 x 6-mm screws, two each at L4 and L5 and 36 x 6-mm screws at S1.,OPERATION IN DETAIL:,  The patient was placed under general endotracheal anesthesia.  The abdomen was prepped and draped in the usual fashion.  Dr. X made the approach, and once the L5-S1 disk space was identified, we incised this with a knife and then removed a large core of bone taking rotating cutters.  I was able to remove additional disk space and score the vertebral bodies.  The rest of the disk removal was done with the curette, scraping the endplates.  I tried various sized spacers, and at this point, we exposed the L5 body and took a dowel from the body and filled the hole with a 15 x 20-mm Chronos VerteFill tricalcium phosphate plug.  Half of this was used to fill the spacer at L5-S1, BMP was placed in the spacer as well and then it was tapped into place.  We then moved the vessels over the opposite way approaching the L4-L5 disk space laterally, and the disk was removed in a similar fashion and we also used a 13-mm PEEK vertebral spacer, but this is the variety that we could put in from one side.  This was filled with bone and BMP as well.  Once this was done, we were able to place an 87-mm Integra sacral plate down over the three vertebral bodies and place these screws.  Following this, bleeding points were controlled and Dr. X proceeded with the closure of the abdomen.,SUMMARY: , This is a 51-year-old man who reports 15-year history of low back pain and intermittent bilateral leg pain and achiness.  He has tried multiple conservative treatments including physical therapy, epidural steroid injections, etc.  MRI scan shows a very degenerated disk at L5-S1, less so at L3-L4 and L4-L5.  A discogram was positive with the lower 3 levels, but he has pain, which starts below the iliac crest and I feel that the L3-L4 disk is probably that symptomatic.  An anterior lumbar interbody fusion was suggested.  Procedure, risks, and complications were explained.
SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient was seen today by me at Nursing Home for her multiple medical problems.  The nurses report that she has been confused at times, having incontinent stool in the sink one time but generally she does not do that poorly.  She does have trouble walking which she attributes to weak legs.  She fell a couple of months ago.  Her eating has been fair.  She has been losing weight a little bit.  She denies diarrhea.  She does complain of feeling listless and unambitious and would like to try some Ensure.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Her meds are fairly extensive and include B12 1000 mg IM monthly, Digitek 250 p.o. every other day alternating with 125 mcg p.o. every other day, aspirin 81 mg daily, Theragran-M daily, Toprol XL 25 mg daily, vitamin B6 100 mg daily, Prevacid 30 mg daily, Oyster Shell calcium with D 500 mg t.i.d., Aricept 5 mg daily, Tylenol 650 mg q.4h. p.r.n., furosemide 20 mg daily p.r.n., and sublingual Nitro p.r.n., and alprazolam 0.25 mg p.r.n.,ALLERGIES:,  Sulfa and trimethoprim.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  She is a well-developed, well-nourished, elderly female in no acute distress.,Vital Signs:  Her age is 90.  Temperature is 98.5 degrees.  Blood pressure:  100/54.  Pulse:  60.  Respirations:  18.  Weight was 132.6 about a week ago, which is down one pound from couple of months ago.,HEENT:  Head was normocephalic.,Neck:  Supple.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender without hepatosplenomegaly or mass.,Extremities:  No calf tenderness or significant ankle edema x 2 in the lower extremities is noted.,Mental Status Exam:  She was uncertain what season we are in.  She thought we were almost in winter.  She did know that today of the week was Friday.  She seemed to recognize me.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Alzheimerâ€™s dementia.,2.  Gradual weight loss.,3.  Fatigue.,4.  B12 deficiency.,5.  Osteoporosis.,6.  Hypertension.,PLAN:,  I ordered yearly digoxin levels.  Increased her Aricept to 10 mg daily.  She apparently does have intermittent atrial fibrillation as a reason for being on the digoxin.  We will plan to recheck her in a couple of months.  Ordered health supplement to be offered after each meal due to her weight loss.
DELIVERY NOTE: , This is a 30-year-old G7, P5 female at 39-4/7th weeks who presents to Labor and Delivery for induction for history of large babies and living far away.  She was admitted and started on Pitocin.  Her cervix is 3 cm, 50% effaced and -2 station.  Artificial rupture of membrane was performed for clear fluid.  She did receive epidural anesthesia.  She progressed to complete and pushing.  She pushed to approximately one contraction and delivered a live-born female infant at 1524 hours.  Apgars were 8 at 1 minute and 9 at 5 minutes.  Placenta was delivered intact with three-vessel cord.  The cervix was visualized.  No lacerations were noted.  Perineum remained intact.  Estimated blood loss is 300 mL.  Complications were none.  Mother and baby remained in the birthing room in good condition.
PROCEDURE:, Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography with brush cytology and biopsy.,INDICATION FOR THE PROCEDURE:, Patient with a history of chronic abdominal pain and CT showing evidence of chronic pancreatitis, with a recent upper endoscopy showing an abnormal-appearing ampulla.,MEDICATIONS:, General anesthesia.,The risks of the procedure were made aware to the patient and consisted of medication reaction, bleeding, perforation, aspiration, and post ERCP pancreatitis.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:, After informed consent and appropriate sedation, the duodenoscope was inserted into the oropharynx, down the esophagus, and into the stomach. The scope was then advanced through the pylorus to the ampulla. The ampulla had a markedly abnormal appearance, as it was enlarged and very prominent. It extended outward with an almost polypoid shape. It had what appeared to be adenomatous-appearing mucosa on the tip. There also was ulceration noted on the tip of this ampulla. The biliary and pancreatic orifices were identified. This was located not at the tip of the ampulla, but rather more towards the base. Cannulation was performed with a Wilson-Cooke TriTome sphincterotome with easy cannulation of the biliary tree. The common bile duct was mildly dilated, measuring approximately 12 mm. The intrahepatic ducts were minimally dilated. There were no filling defects identified. There was felt to be a possible stricture within the distal common bile duct, but this likely represented an anatomic variant given the abnormal shape of the ampulla. The patient has no evidence of obstruction based on lab work and clinically. Nevertheless, it was decided to proceed with brush cytology of this segment. This was done without any complications. There was adequate drainage of the biliary tree noted throughout the procedure. Multiple efforts were made to access the pancreatic ductal anatomy; however, because of the shape of the ampulla, this was unsuccessful. Efforts were made to proceed in a long scope position, but still were unsuccessful. Next, biopsies were obtained of the ampulla away from the biliary orifice. Four biopsies were taken. There was some minor oozing which had ceased by the end of the procedure. The stomach was then decompressed and the endoscope was withdrawn.,FINDINGS:,1. Abnormal papilla with bulging, polypoid appearance, and looks adenomatous with ulceration on the tip; biopsies taken.,2. Cholangiogram reveals mildly dilated common bile duct measuring 12 mm and possible distal CBD stricture, although I think this is likely an anatomic variant; brush cytology obtained.,3. Unable to access the pancreatic duct.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1. NPO except ice chips today.,2. Will proceed with MRCP to better delineate pancreatic ductal anatomy.,3. Follow up biopsies and cytology.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,GENERAL:  ,The patient is awake and alert, in no apparent distress, appropriate, pleasant and cooperative.  No dysarthria is noted.  No discomfort on presentation is noted.,HEAD: , Atraumatic, normocephalic.  Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light.  Extraocular muscles are intact.  Sclerae are white without injection or icterus.  Fundi are without papilledema, hemorrhages or exudates with normal vessels.,EARS:  ,The ear canals are patent without edema, exudate or drainage.  Tympanic membranes are intact with a normal cone of light.  No bulging or erythema to indicate infection is present.  There is no hemotympanum.  Hearing is grossly intact.,NOSE: , Without deformity, bleeding or discharge.  No septal hematoma is noted.,ORAL CAVITY: , No swelling or abnormality to the lip or teeth.  Oral mucosa is pink and moist.  No swelling to the palate or pharynx.  Uvula is midline.  The pharynx is without exudate or erythema.  No edema is seen of the tonsils.  The airway is completely patent.  The voice is normal.  No stridor is heard.,NECK: , No signs of meningismus.  No Brudzinski or Kernig sign is present.  No adenopathy is noted.  No JVD is seen.  No bruits are auscultated.  Trachea is midline.,CHEST: , Symmetrical with equal breath sounds.  Equal excursion.  No hyperresonance or dullness to percussion is noted.  There is no tenderness on palpation of the chest.,LUNGS: , Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No rales, rhonchi or wheezes are appreciated.  Good air movement is auscultated in all 4 lung fields.,HEART: , Regular rate and rhythm.  No murmur.  No S3, S4 or rub is auscultated.  Point of maximal impulse is strong and in normal position.  Abdominal aorta is not palpable.  The carotid upstroke is normal.,ABDOMEN: , Soft, nontender and nondistended.  Normal bowel sounds are auscultated.  No organomegaly is appreciated.  No masses are palpated.  No tympany is noted on percussion.  No guarding, rigidity or rebound tenderness is seen on exam.  Murphy and McBurney sign is negative.  There is no Rovsing, obturator or psoas sign present.  No hepatosplenomegaly and no hernias are noted.,RECTAL: , Normal tone.  No masses.  Soft, brown stool in the vault.  Guaiac negative.,GENITOURINARY: , External genitalia without erythema, exudate or discharge.  Vaginal vault is without discharge.  Cervix is of normal color without lesion.  The os is closed.  There is no bleeding noted.  Uterus is noted to be of normal size and nontender.  No cervical motion tenderness is seen.  No masses are palpated.  The adnexa are without masses or tenderness.,EXTREMITIES: , No clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  Pulses are strong and equal in the femoral and dorsalis pedis arteries, bounding and equal.  No deformity or signs of trauma.  All joints are stable without laxity.  There is good range of motion of all joints without tenderness or discomfort.  Homan sign is negative.  No atrophy or contractures are noted.,SKIN: , No rashes.  No jaundice.  Pink and warm with good turgor.  Good color.  No erythema or nodules noted.  No petechia, bulla or ecchymosis.,NEUROLOGIC: , Cranial nerves II through XII are grossly intact.  Muscle strength is graded 5/5 in the upper and lower extremities bilaterally.  Deep tendon reflexes are symmetrical in the upper and lower extremities bilaterally.  Babinski is downgoing bilaterally.  Sensation is intact to light touch and vibration.  Gait is normal.  Romberg, finger-to-nose, rapid alternating movements and heel-to-shin are all normal.  There is no ataxia seen on gait testing.  Tone is normal.  No pronator drift is seen.,PSYCHIATRIC:  ,The patient is oriented x4.  Mood and affect are appropriate.  Memory is intact with good short- and long-term memory recall.  No dysarthria is noted.  Remote memory is intact.  Judgment and insight appear normal.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,1.  Left chronic anterior and posterior ethmoiditis.,2.  Left chronic maxillary sinusitis with polyps.,3.  Left inferior turbinate hypertrophy.,4.  Right anterior and posterior chronic ethmoiditis.,5.  Right chronic maxillary sinusitis with polyps.,6.  Right chronic inferior turbinate hypertrophic.,7.  Intranasal deformity causing nasal obstruction due to septal deviation.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,1.  Left chronic anterior and posterior ethmoiditis.,2.  Left chronic maxillary sinusitis with polyps.,3.  Left inferior turbinate hypertrophy.,4.  Right anterior and posterior chronic ethmoiditis.,5.  Right chronic maxillary sinusitis with polyps.,6.  Right chronic inferior turbinate hypertrophic.,7.  Intranasal deformity causing nasal obstruction due to septal deviation.,NAME OF OPERATION: , Bilateral endoscopic sinus surgery, including left anterior and posterior ethmoidectomy, left maxillary antrostomy with polyp removal, left inferior partial turbinectomy, right anterior and posterior ethmoidectomy, right maxillary antrostomy and polyp removal, right partial inferior turbinectomy, and septoplasty.,ANESTHESIA:,  General endotracheal.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Approximately 20 cc.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 55-year-old female who has had chronic nasal obstruction secondary to nasal polyps and chronic sinusitis.  She also has a septal deviation mid posterior to the left compromising greater than 70% of her nasal airway.,PROCEDURE:  ,The patient was brought to the operating room and placed in the supine position.  After adequate endotracheal anesthesia was obtained, the skin was prepped and draped in sterile fashion.  Lidocaine 1% with 1:100,000 epinephrine was injected into the region of the anterior portion of the nasal septum.  Approximately 10 cc total was used.,A #15 blade and the Freer elevator were used to help make a standard hemitransfixion incision.  A mucoperichondrial flap was carefully elevated, and the junction with the cartilaginous bony septum was separated with the Freer elevator.  The bony deflection was removed using Jansen-Middleton forceps.  The cartilaginous deflection was created by freeing up the inferior attachments to the cartilaginous septum, placing it more on the midline maxillary crest.  The initial incision was placed in its anatomical position and secured with a 4-0 nylon suture for stabilization effect.,Attention then was directed toward the left side.  Lidocaine 1% with 1:100,000 epinephrine was injected in the region of the anterior portion of the left middle turbinate and uncinate process and polyps.  Approximately 10 cc total was used.  The polyps were removed using the Richards essential shaver to help identify the middle turbinate and uncinate process better.  The uncinate process was removed systematically superiorly to inferiorly with back-biting forceps.  Next, the maxillary antrostomy was identified and expanded with the back-biting forceps and showed polypoid accumulation in the mucosal disease on its opening site.  The sinus linings were edematous but did not have any polyps in the inferior, lateral, or superior aspects.,The anterior and posterior ethmoid air cells were entered primarily and dissected with the Richards essential shaver followed by the use of a 30-degree endoscope and up-biting forceps for the superior and lateral dissection.  Bright mucosal disease and small polypoid accumulations were noted through the sinuses also.  The inferior turbinates had some polypoid changes on them also and showed marked mucosal irritation and hypertrophy.  The mucosal polypoid accumulations were cleared using the Richards essential shaver.  The turbinate was partially resected from mucosally but with good shape to it.  It was not desirable to remove it in its entirety.  Any obvious bleeding points along the edge were controlled with the suction Bovie apparatus.,The same procedure and findings were noted on the right side with 1% lidocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine injected into the anterior portion of the right middle turbinate, polyps, and uncinate process; 10 cc total were used.  The polyps were removed.  The Richards essential shaver was used to allow better exposure of the uncinate process.  The uncinate process was removed superiorly to inferiorly with back-biting side-biting forceps.,Next, a maxillary antrostomy was identified and expanded with the back-biting and side-biting forceps and showed all plate accumulations there also.  The anterior and posterior ethmoid air cells were then entered primarily and dissected with Richards essential shaver followed by the use of the 30-degree scope and up-biting forceps for the superior and lateral resection.  The inferior turbinates showed mucosal disease, polypoid accumulations, and changes.  These were removed using the Richards essential shaver followed by a submucosal resection of the hypertrophied portion of the turbinate.,Any obvious bleeding points were controlled with the suction Bovie apparatus.  A thorough irrigation was then carried out in the nasal cavity, and Gelfilm packing was used to coat the linings in the middle meatal regions.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and returned to the recovery room in stable condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,Breast hypoplasia, melasma to the face, and varicose veins to the posterior aspect of the right distal thigh/popliteal fossa area.,PROCEDURES,1.  Bilateral augmentation mammoplasty, subglandular with a mammary gel silicone breast implant, 435 cc each.,2.  TCA peel to two lesions of the face and vein stripping to the right posterior thigh and popliteal fossa area.,ANESTHESIA,General endotracheal.,EBL,100 cc.,IV FLUIDS,2L.,URINE OUTPUT,Per Anesthesia.,INDICATION FOR SURGERY,The patient is a 48-year-old female who was seen in clinic by Dr. W and where she was evaluated for her small breasts as well as dark areas on her face and varicose veins to the back and posterior aspect of her right lower extremity.  She requested that surgical procedures to be performed for correction of these abnormalities.  As such, complications were explained to the patient including infection, bleeding, poor wound healing, and need for additional surgery.  The patient subsequently signed the consent and requested that Dr. W and associates to perform the procedure.,TECHNIQUE,The patient was brought to the operating room in supine position.  General anesthesia was induced and then the patient was placed on the operating table in a prone position.  The posterior thigh of the right lower extremity was prepped and draped in a sterile fashion.  First, multiple serial small incisions less than 1 cm in length were made to the posterior aspect of the right thigh and sequential stripping of the varicose veins was performed.  Once these varicose veins had been completely stripped and avulsed, then next the wounds were then irrigated and were cleaned with wet and dry, and all the incisions were closed with the use of 5-0 Monocryl buried interrupted sutures.  The incisions were then dressed with Mastisol, Steri-Strips, ABDs and a TED hose.  Next, the patient was then flipped back over onto the stretcher and placed on the operating table in a supine position.  The anterior chest was then prepped and draped in a sterile fashion.  Next, a 10 blade was placed through previous circumareolar incisions from a previous augmentation mammoplasty.  Dissection was carried out with a 10 blade and Bovie cautery until the pectoralis fascia was identified to both breasts.  Once the pectoralis muscle and fascia were identified, then a surgical plane was created in a subglandular layer.  The hemostasis was obtained to both breast pockets with the Bovie cautery and suction and irrigation was performed to bilateral breast pockets as well.  A sizer was used to identify the appropriate size of the silicone implant to be used.  This was determined to be approximately 435 cc bilaterally.  As such, two mammary gel silicone breast implants were placed in a subglandular muscle.  Additional dissection of the breast pockets were performed bilaterally and the patient was sequentially placed in the upright sitting position for evaluation of appropriate placement of the mammary gel silicone implants.  Once it was determined that the implants were appropriately selected and placed with the 435 cc silicon gel implant, the circumareolar incisions were closed in approximately 4-layered fashion closing the fascia, subcutaneous tissue, deep dermis, and a running dermal subcuticular for final skin closure.  This was performed with 3-0 Monocryl and then 4-0 Monocryl for running subcuticular.  The incisions were then dressed with Mastisol, Steri-Strips, and Xeroform and dressed with sample Kerlix.  Next, our attention was paid to the face where 25% TCA solution was applied to two locations; one on the left cheek and the other one on the right cheek, where a hyperpigmentation/melasma.  Several applications of the TCA peel was performed, and at the end of this, the frosting was noted to both spots.  At the end of the case, needle and instrument counts were correct.  Dr. W was present and scrubbed for the entire procedure.  The patient was extubated in the operating room and taken to the PACU in stable condition.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: , Newly diagnosed high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia; extensive deep vein thrombosis, right iliac vein and inferior vena cava (IVC), status post balloon angioplasty, and mechanical and pharmacologic thrombolysis following placement of a vena caval filter.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient was transferred here the evening of 02/23/2007 from Hospital with a new diagnosis of high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia based on confirmation by flow cytometry of peripheral blood lymphoblasts that afternoon.  History related to this illness probably dates back to October of 2006 when he had onset of swelling and discomfort in the left testicle with what he described as a residual "lump" posteriorly.  The left testicle has continued to be painful off and on since.  In early November, he developed pain in the posterior part of his upper right leg, which he initially thought was related to skateboarding and muscle strain.  Physical therapy was prescribed and the discomfort temporarily improved.  In December, he noted onset of increasing fatigue.  He used to work out regularly, lifting lifts, doing abdominal exercises, and playing basketball and found he did not have energy to pursue these activities.  He has lost 10 pounds since December and feels his appetite has decreased.  Night sweats and cough began in December, for which he was treated with a course of Augmentin.  However, both of these problems have continued.  He also began taking Accutane for persistent acne in December (this agent was stopped on 02/19/2007).  Despite increasing fatigue and lethargy, he continues his studies at University of Denver, has a biology major (he aspires to be an ophthalmologist).,The morning of 02/19/2007, he awakened with severe right inguinal and right lower quadrant pain.  He was seen in Emergency Room where it was noted that he had an elevated WBC of 18,000.  CT scan of the abdomen was obtained to rule out possible appendicitis and on that CT, a large clot in the inferior vena cava extending to the right iliac and femoral veins was found.  He promptly underwent appropriate treatment in interventional radiology with the above-noted angioplasty and placement of a vena caval filter followed by mechanical and pharmacologic thrombolysis.  Repeat ultrasound there on 02/20/2007 showed no evidence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT).  Continuous intravenous unfractionated heparin infusion was continued.  Because there was no obvious cause of this extensive thrombosis, occult malignancy was suspected.  Appropriate blood studies were obtained and he underwent a PET/CT scan as part of his diagnostic evaluation.  This study showed moderately increased diffuse bone marrow metabolic activity.  Because the WBC continued to rise and showed a preponderance of lymphocytes, the smear was reviewed by pathologist, Sheryl Asplund, M.D., and flow cytometry was performed on the peripheral blood.  These studies became available the afternoon of 02/23/2007, and confirmed the diagnosis of precursor-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia.  The patient was transferred here after stopping of the continuous infusion heparin and receiving a dose of Lovenox 60 mg subcutaneously for further diagnostic evaluation and management of the acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).,ALLERGIES: , NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.  HE DOES SEEM TO REACT TO CERTAIN ADHESIVES.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:  ,1.  Lovenox 60 mg subcutaneously q.12h. initiated.,2.  Coumadin 5 mg p.o., was administered on 02/19/2007 and 02/22/2007.,3.  Protonix 40 mg intravenous (IV) daily.,4.  Vicodin p.r.n.,5.  Levaquin 750 mg IV on 02/23/2007.,IMMUNIZATIONS: , Up-to-date.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  ,The treatment of the thrombosis as noted above on 02/19/2007 and 02/20/2007.,FAMILY HISTORY:  ,Two half-brothers, ages 26 and 28, both in good health.  Parents are in good health.  A maternal great-grandmother had a deep venous thrombosis (DVT) of leg in her 40s.  A maternal great-uncle developed leukemia around age 50.  A maternal great-grandfather had bone cancer around age 80.  His paternal grandfather died of colon cancer at age 73, which he had had since age 68.  Adult-onset diabetes is present in distant relatives on both sides.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,The patient is a student at the University majoring in biology.  He lives in a dorm there.  His parents live in Breckenridge.  He admits to having smoked marijuana off and on with friends and drinking beer off and on as well.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , He has had emesis off and on related to Vicodin and constipation since 02/19/2007, also related to pain medication.  He has had acne for about two years, which he describes as mild to moderate.  He denied shortness of breath, chest pain, hemoptysis, dyspnea, headaches, joint pains, rashes, except where he has had dressings applied, and extremity pain except for the right leg pain noted above.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  ,GENERAL:  Alert, cooperative, moderately ill-appearing young man.,VITAL SIGNS:  At the time of admission, pulse was 94, respirations 20, blood pressure 120/62, temperature 98.7, height 171.5 cm, weight 63.04 kg, and pulse oximetry on room air 95%.,HAIR AND SKIN:  Mild facial acne.,HEENT:  Extraocular muscles (EOMs) intact.  Pupils equal, round, and reactive to light and accommodation (PERRLA), fundi normal.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  A 2/6 systolic ejection murmur (SEM), regular sinus rhythm (RSR).,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation with an occasional productive cough.,ABDOMEN:  Soft with mild lower quadrant tenderness, right more so than left; liver and spleen each decreased 4 cm below their respective costal margins.,MUSCULOSKELETAL:  Mild swelling of the dorsal aspect of the right foot and distal right leg.  Mild tenderness over the prior catheter entrance site in the right popliteal fossa and mild tenderness over the right medial upper thigh.,GENITOURINARY:  Testicle exam disclosed no firm swelling with mild nondiscrete fullness in the posterior left testicle.,NEUROLOGIC:  Exam showed him to be oriented x4.  Normal fundi, intact cranial nerves II through XII with downgoing toes, symmetric muscle strength, and decreased patellar deep tendon reflexes (DTRs).,LABORATORY DATA:  ,White count 25,500 (26 neutrophils, 1 band, 7 lymphocytes, 1 monocyte, 1 myelocyte, 64 blasts), hemoglobin 13.3, hematocrit 38.8, and 312,000 platelets.  Electrolytes, BUN, creatinine, phosphorus, uric acid, AST, ALT, alkaline phosphatase, and magnesium were all normal.  LDH was elevated to 1925 units/L (upper normal 670), and total protein and albumin were both low at 6.2 and 3.4 g/dL respectively.  Calcium was also slightly low at 8.8 mg/dL.  Low molecular weight heparin test was low at 0.27 units/mL.  PT was 11.8, INR 1.2, and fibrinogen 374.  Urinalysis was normal.,ASSESSMENT: , 1.  Newly diagnosed high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia.,2.  Deep vein thrombosis of the distal iliac and common femoral/right femoral and iliac veins, status post vena caval filter placement and mechanical and thrombolytic therapy, on continued anticoagulation.,3.  Probable chronic left epididymitis.,PLAN: , 1.  Proceed with diagnostic bone marrow aspirate/biopsy and lumbar puncture (using a #27-gauge pencil-tip needle for minimal trauma) as soon as these procedures can be safely done with regard to the anticoagulation status.,2.  Prompt reassessment of the status of the deep venous thrombosis with Doppler studies.,3.  Ultrasound/Doppler of the testicles.,4.  Maintain therapeutic anticoagulation as soon as the diagnostic procedures for ALL can be completed.,
FINDINGS:,High resolution computerized tomography was performed from T12-L1 to the S1 level with reformatted images in the sagittal and coronal planes and 3D reconstructions performed. COMPARISON: Previous MRI examination 10/13/2004.,There is minimal curvature of the lumbar spine convex to the left.,T12-L1, L1-2, L2-3: There is normal disc height with no posterior annular disc bulging or protrusion. Normal central canal, intervertebral neural foramina and facet joints.,L3-4: There is normal disc height and non-compressive circumferential annular disc bulging eccentrically greater to the left. Normal central canal and facet joints (image #255).,L4-5: There is normal disc height, circumferential annular disc bulging, left L5 hemilaminectomy and posterior central/right paramedian broad-based disc protrusion measuring 4mm (AP) contouring the rightward aspect of the thecal sac. Orthopedic hardware is noted posteriorly at the L5 level. Normal central canal, facet joints and intervertebral neural foramina (image #58).,L5-S1: There is minimal decreased disc height, postsurgical change with intervertebral disc spacer, posterior lateral orthopedic hardware with bilateral pedicle screws in good postsurgical position. The orthopedic hardware creates mild streak artifact which mildly degrades images. There is a laminectomy defect, spondylolisthesis with 3.5mm of anterolisthesis of L5, posterior annular disc bulging greatest in the left foraminal region lying adjacent to the exiting left L5 nerve root. There is fusion of the facet joints, normal central canal and right neural foramen (image #69-70, 135).,There is no bony destructive change noted.,There is no perivertebral soft tissue abnormality.,There is minimal to mild arteriosclerotic vascular calcifications noted in the abdominal aorta and right proximal common iliac artery.,IMPRESSION:,Minimal curvature of the lumbar spine convex to the left.,L3-4 posterior non-compressive annular disc bulging eccentrically greater to the left.,L4-5 circumferential annular disc bulging, non-compressive central/right paramedian disc protrusion, left L5 laminectomy.,L5-S1 postsurgical change with posterolateral orthopedic fusion hardware in good postsurgical position, intervertebral disc spacer, spondylolisthesis, laminectomy defect, posterior annular disc bulging greatest in the left foraminal region adjacent to the exiting left L5 nerve root with questionable neural impingement.,Minimal to mild arteriosclerotic vascular calcifications.
Patient was informed by Dr. ABC that he does not need sleep study as per patient.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  Pleasant, brighter.,Vital signs:  117/78, 12, 56.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender.  Bowel sounds normal.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Constipation.  Milk of Magnesia 30 mL daily p.r.n., Dulcolax suppository twice a week p.r.n.,2.  CAD/angina.  See cardiologist this afternoon.,Call me if constipation not resolved by a.m., consider a Fleet enema then as discussed.,
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Incompetent glottis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Incompetent glottis.,OPERATION PERFORMED:,1.  Fat harvesting from the upper thigh.,2.  Micro-laryngoscopy.,3.  Fat injection thyroplasty.,FINDINGS AND PROCEDURE: , With the patient in the supine position under adequate general endotracheal anesthesia, the operative area was prepped and draped in a routine fashion.  A 1-cm incision was made in the upper thigh, and approximately 5 cc of fat was liposuctioned from the subcutaneous space.  After this had been accomplished, the wound was closed with an interrupted subcuticular suture of 4-0 chromic and a light compression dressing was applied.,Next, the fat was placed in a urine strainer and copiously washed using 100 cc of PhysioSol containing 100 units of regular insulin.  After this had been accomplished, it was placed in a 3-cc BD syringe and, thence, into the Stasney fat injector device.  Next, a Dedo laryngoscope was used to visualize the larynx, and approximately *** cc of fat was injected into the right TA muscle and *** cc of fat into the left TA muscle.,The patient tolerated the procedure well and was returned to the recovery room in satisfactory condition.  Estimated blood loss was negligible.
SUBJECTIVE:,  This 23-year-old white female presents with complaint of allergies.  She used to have allergies when she lived in Seattle but she thinks they are worse here.  In the past, she has tried Claritin, and Zyrtec.  Both worked for short time but then seemed to lose effectiveness.  She has used Allegra also.  She used that last summer and she began using it again two weeks ago.  It does not appear to be working very well.  She has used over-the-counter sprays but no prescription nasal sprays.  She does have asthma but doest not require daily medication for this and does not think it is flaring up.,MEDICATIONS: , Her only medication currently is Ortho Tri-Cyclen and the Allegra.,ALLERGIES: , She has no known medicine allergies.,OBJECTIVE:,Vitals:  Weight was 130 pounds and blood pressure 124/78.,HEENT:  Her throat was mildly erythematous without exudate.  Nasal mucosa was erythematous and swollen.  Only clear drainage was seen.  TMs were clear.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,Lungs:  Clear.,ASSESSMENT:,  Allergic rhinitis.,PLAN:,1.  She will try Zyrtec instead of Allegra again.  Another option will be to use loratadine.  She does not think she has prescription coverage so that might be cheaper.,2.  Samples of Nasonex two sprays in each nostril given for three weeks.  A prescription was written as well.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: , Possible exposure to ant bait.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  This is a 14-month-old child who apparently was near the sink, got into the childproof cabinet and pulled out ant bait that had Borax in it.  It had 11 mL of this fluid in it.  She spilled it on her, had it on her hands.  Parents were not sure whether she ingested any of it.  So, they brought her in for evaluation.  They did not note any symptoms of any type.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Negative.  Generally very healthy.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , The child has not been having any coughing, gagging, vomiting, or other symptoms.  Acting perfectly normal.  Family mostly noted that she had spilled it on the ground around her, had it on her hands, and on her clothes.  They did not witness that she ingested any, but did not see anything her mouth.,MEDICATIONS: , None.,ALLERGIES: , NONE.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , VITAL SIGNS:  The patient was afebrile.  Stable vital signs and normal pulse oximetry.  GENERAL:  The child is very active, cheerful youngster, in no distress whatsoever.  HEENT:  Unremarkable.  Oral mucosa is clear, moist, and well hydrated.  I do not see any evidence of any sort of liquid on the face.  Her clothing did have the substance on the clothes, but I did not see any evidence of anything on her torso.  Apparently, she had some on her hands that has been wiped off.,EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT COURSE:,  I discussed the case with Poison Control and apparently this is actually relatively small quantity and it is likely to be a nontoxic ingestion if she even ingested, which should does not appear likely to be the case.,IMPRESSION: , Exposure to ant bait.,PLAN: , At this point, it is fairly unlikely that this child ingested any significant amount, if at all, which seems unlikely.  She is not exhibiting any symptoms and I explained to the parents that if she develops any vomiting, she should be brought back for reevaluation.  So, the patient is discharged in stable condition.
PROCEDURE:,  Belly button piercing for insertion of belly button ring.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:,  The patient was prepped after informed consent was given of risk of infection and foreign body reaction.  The area was marked by the patient and then prepped.  The area was injected with 2% Xylocaine 1:100,000 epinephrine.,Then a #14-gauge needle was inserted above the belly button and inserted up to the skin just above the actual umbilical area and the ring was inserted into the #14-gauge needle and pulled through.  A small ball was placed over the end of the ring.  This terminated the procedure.,The patient tolerated the procedure well.  Postop instructions were given regarding maintenance.  Patient left the office in satisfactory condition.
DIAGNOSIS:,  Possible cerebrovascular accident.,DESCRIPTION: , The EEG was obtained using 21 electrodes placed in scalp-to-scalp and scalp-to-vertex montages.  The background activity appears to consist of fairly organized somewhat pleomorphic low to occasional medium amplitude of 7-8 cycle per second activity and was seen mostly posteriorly bilaterally symmetrically.  A large amount of movement artifacts and electromyographic effects were noted intermixed throughout the recording session.  Transient periods of drowsiness occurred naturally producing irregular 5-7 cycle per second activity mostly over the anterior regions.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  No epileptiform activity or any definite lateralizing findings were seen.,IMPRESSION: , Mildly abnormal study.  The findings are suggestive of a generalized cerebral disorder.  Due to the abundant amount of movement artifacts, any lateralizing findings, if any cannot be well appreciated.  Clinical correlation is recommended.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: , Severe back pain and sleepiness.,The patient is not a good historian and history was obtained from the patient's husband at bedside.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,The patient is a 76-year-old obese Caucasian female with past medical conditions that includes hypertension, history of urinary incontinence, dementia, and chronic back pain, basically brought by the husband to the emergency room because of having excruciating back pain.  As per the husband, the patient has this back pain for about almost 1 year and seeing Dr. X in Neurosurgery and had an epidural injection x2, and then the patient's pain somewhat got better between, but last time the patient went to see Dr. X, the patient given injection and the patient passed out, so the doctor stopped giving any other epidural injection.  The patient has severe pain and all in all, the patient cries at home.  As per the husband, the patient woke up in the morning with severe pain, unable to eat, drink today, and crying in the morning, so brought her to the emergency room for further evaluation.  The patient denied any history of fever, cough, chest pain, diarrhea, dysuria or polyuria.  While I was examining the patient, the patient explained about possible diagnosis and treatment plan and possible nursing home discharge for pain control.  The patient passed out for about 3 to 4 minutes, unable to respond to even painful stimuli.  The patient's heart rate went down to 50s and blood pressure was 92 systolic, so the patient was later on given IV fluid and blood pressure checked.  The patient woke up after 5 to 6 minutes, so the patient was later on evaluated for admission because of near syncopal episode.,PAST MEDICAL CONDITIONS:,  Include hypertension, dementia, urinary incontinence, chronic back pain, and degenerative joint disease of the spine.  No history of diabetes, stroke or coronary artery disease.,SURGICAL HISTORY: , Include left total hip replacement many years ago, history of hysterectomy, and appendectomy in the young age.,ALLERGIES: , DENIED.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS: , According to the list shows the patient takes hydrocodone 10/325 mg every 6 hours, Flexeril 10 mg p.o. at bedtime, and Xanax 0.25 mg p.o. 4 times a day.  The patient also takes Neurontin 200 mg 3 times a day, propranolol 10 mg twice a day, oxybutynin 5 mg p.o. twice a day, Namenda 10 mg p.o. daily, and Aricept 10 mg p.o. daily.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , She lives with her husband, usually walks with a walker and wheelchair-bound, does not walk much as per the husband knows.  No history of alcohol abuse or smoking.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  Currently lying in the bed without apparent distress, very lethargic.,VITAL SIGNS:  Pulse rate of 55, blood pressure is 92/52, after IV fluid came up to 105/58.,CHEST:  Shows bilateral air entry present, clear to auscultate.,HEART:  S1 and S2 regular.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, nondistended, and nontender.,EXTREMITIES:  Shows the patient's straight leg raising to be only up to 30% causing the patient severe back pain.,IMAGING: , The patient's x-ray of the lumbosacral spine done shows there is a L1 compression fracture with some osteophyte formation in the lumbar spine suggestive of degenerative joint disease.,LABORATORY DATA: , The patient's lab test is not done currently, but previous lab test done in 3/2009 seems to be in acceptable range.,IMPRESSION: , The patient, because of near syncopal episode and polypharmacy, almost passed out for about 3 to 4 minutes in front of me with a low blood pressure.,1.  Vasovagal syncope versus polypharmacy because of 3 to 4 medications and muscle relaxants.,2.  Osteoporosis of the spine with L1 compression fracture causing the patient severe pain.,3.  Hypertension, now hypotension.,4.  Incontinence of the bladder.,5.  Dementia, most likely Alzheimer type.,PLAN AND SUGGESTION: , Initial plan was to send the patient to the nursing home, but because of the patient's low blood pressure and heart rate low, we will admit the patient to DOU for 23-hour observation, start the patient on IV fluid, normal saline, 20 mEq KCl, and Protonix 40 mg, and we will also continue the patient's Namenda and Aricept.  I will hold the patient's hydrocodone.  I will hold the Flexeril and I will also hold gabapentin at this moment.  We will give the patient's pain control with Percocet and very minimal morphine sulfate as needed.  Also give the patient calcium with vitamin D and physical therapy.  We will also order a blood test and further management will be based on the patient's all test results.  I also explained to the husband that tomorrow if the patient is better and more alert and awake, then we will send her to the nursing care versus home, it depends on the pain control.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Carotid artery occlusive disease.,2.  Peripheral vascular disease.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Carotid artery occlusive disease.,2.  Peripheral vascular disease.,OPERATIONS PERFORMED:,1.  Bilateral carotid cerebral angiogram.,2.  Right femoral-popliteal angiogram.,FINDINGS: , The right carotid cerebral system was selectively catheterized and visualized.  The right internal carotid artery was found to be very tortuous with kinking in its cervical portions, but no focal stenosis was noted.  Likewise, the intracranial portion of the right internal carotid artery showed no significant disease nor did the right middle cerebral artery.,The left carotid cerebral system was selectively catheterized and visualized.  The cervical portion of the left internal carotid artery showed a 30 to 40% stenosis with small ulcer crater present.  The intracranial portion of the left internal carotid artery showed no significant disease nor did the left middle cerebral artery.,Visualization of the right lower extremity showed no significant disease.,PROCEDURE: , With the patient in supine position under local anesthesia plus intravenous sedation, the groin areas were prepped and draped in a sterile fashion.,The common femoral artery was punctured in a routine retrograde fashion and a 5-French introducer sheath was advanced under fluoroscopic guidance.  A catheter was then placed in the aortic arch and the right and left common carotid arteries were then selectively catheterized and visualized as described above.,Following completion of the above, the catheter and introducer sheath were removed.  Heparin had been initially given, which was reversed with protamine.  Firm pressure was held over the puncture site for 20 minutes, followed by application of a sterile Coverlet dressing and sandbag compression.,The patient tolerated the procedure well throughout.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: , Abdominal pain.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,The patient is an 89-year-old white male who developed lower abdominal pain, which was constant, onset approximately half an hour after dinner on the evening prior to admission.  He described the pain as 8/10 in severity and the intensity varied.  The symptoms persisted and he subsequently developed nausea and vomiting at 3 a.m. in the morning of admission.  The patient vomited twice and he states that he did note a temporary decrease in pain following his vomiting.  The patient was brought to the emergency room approximately 4 a.m. and evaluation including the CT scan, which revealed dilated loops of bowel without obvious obstruction.  The patient was subsequently admitted for possible obstruction.  The patient does have a history of previous small bowel obstruction approximately 20 times all but 2 required hospitalization, but all resolved with conservative measures (IV fluid, NG tube decompression, bowel rest.)  He has had previous abdominal surgeries including colon resection for colon CA and cholecystectomy as well as appendectomy.,PAST HISTORY: , Hypertension treated with Cozaar 100 mg daily and Norvasc 10 mg daily.  Esophageal reflux treated with Nexium 40 mg daily.  Allergic rhinitis treated with Allegra 180 mg daily.  Sleep disturbances, depression and anxiety treated with Paxil 25 mg daily, Advair 10 mg nightly and Ativan 1 mg nightly.  Glaucoma treated with Xalatan drops.  History of chronic bronchitis with no smoking history for which he uses p.r.n. Flovent and Serevent.,PREVIOUS SURGERIES:  ,Partial colon resection of colon carcinoma in 1961 with no recurrence, cholecystectomy 10 years ago, appendectomy, and glaucoma surgery.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Father died at age 85 of "old age," mother died at age 89 of "old age."  Brother died at age 92 of old age, 2 brothers died in their 70s of Parkinson disease.  Son is at age 58 and has a history of hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, rheumatoid arthritis, and glaucoma.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,The patient is widowed and a retired engineer.  He denies cigarettes smoking or alcohol intake.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , Denies fevers or weight loss.  HEENT:  Denies headaches, visual abnormality, decreased hearing, tinnitus, rhinorrhea, epistaxis or sore throat.  Neck:  Denies neck stiffness, no pain or masses in the neck.  Respiratory:  Denies cough, sputum production, hemoptysis, wheezing or shortness of breath.  Cardiovascular:  Denies chest pain, angina pectoris, DOE, PND, orthopnea, edema or palpitation.  Gastrointestinal:  See history of the present illness.  Urinary:  Denies dysuria, frequency, urgency or hematuria.  Neuro:  Denies seizure, syncope, incoordination, hemiparesis or paresthesias.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  The patient is a well-developed, well-nourished elderly white male who is currently in no acute distress after receiving analgesics.,HEENT:  Atraumatic, normocephalic.  Eyes, EOMs full, PERRLA.  Fundi benign.  TMs normal.  Nose clear.  Throat benign.,NECK:  Supple with no adenopathy.  Carotid upstrokes normal with no bruits.  Thyroid is not enlarged.,LUNGS:  Clear to percussion and auscultation.,HEART:  Regular rate, normal S1 and S2 with no murmurs or gallops.  PMI is nondisplaced.,ABDOMEN:  Mildly distended with mild diffuse tenderness.  There is no rebound or guarding.  Bowel sounds are hypoactive.,EXTREMITIES:  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Pulses are strong and intact throughout.,GENITALIA:  Atrophic male, no scrotal masses or tenderness.  Testicles are atrophic.  No hernia is noted.,RECTAL:  Unremarkable, prostate was not enlarged and there were no nodules or tenderness.,LAB DATA:,  WBC 12.1, hemoglobin and hematocrit 16.9/52.1, platelets 277,000.  Sodium 137, potassium 3.9, chloride 100, bicarbonate 26, BUN 27, creatinine 1.4, glucose 157, amylase 103, lipase 44.  Alkaline phosphatase, AST and ALT are all normal.  UA is negative.,Abdomen and pelvic CT showed mild stomach distention with multiple fluid-filled loops of bowel, no obvious obstruction noted.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, rule out recurrent small bowel obstruction.,2.  Hypertension.,3.  Esophageal reflux.,4.  Allergic rhinitis.,5.  Glaucoma.,PLAN: , The patient is admitted to the medical floor.  He has been kept NPO and will be given IV fluids.  He will also be given antiemetic medications with Zofran and an analgesic as necessary.  General surgery consultation was obtained.  Abdominal series x-ray will be done.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Aortoiliac occlusive disease.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:, Aortoiliac occlusive disease.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:, Aortobifemoral bypass.,OPERATIVE FINDINGS: , The patient was taken to the operating room.  The abdominal contents were within normal limits.  The aorta was of normal size and consistency consistent with arteriosclerosis.  A 16x8 mm Gore-Tex graft was placed without difficulty.  The femoral vessels were small somewhat thin and there was posterior packing, but satisfactory bypass was performed.,PROCEDURE: , The patient was taken to the operating room, placed in a supine position, and prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner with Betadine solution.  A longitudinal incision was made after a Betadine-coated drape was placed over the incisional area.  Longitudinal incision was made over each groin initially and carried down to the subcutaneous fat and fascia.  Hemostasis was obtained with electrocautery.  The common deep and superficial femoral arteries were exposed and then these incisions were covered with antibiotic soaked sponges.  Attention was then turned to the abdomen, where a longitudinal incision was made from the pubis xiphoid, carried down subcutaneous fat and fascia.  Hemostasis was obtained with electrocautery.  The abdomen was entered above the umbilicus and then this was extended with care inferiorly as the patient has undergone previous abdominal surgery.  Mild adhesions were lysed.  The omentum was freed.  The small and large intestine were run with no evidence of abnormalities.  The liver and gallbladder were within normal limits.  No abnormalities were noted.  At this point, the Bookwalter retractor was placed.  NG tube was placed in the stomach and placed on suction.  The intestines were gently packed intraabdominally and laterally.  The rest of the peritoneum was then opened.  The aorta was cleared, both proximally and distally.  The left iliac was completely occluded.  The right iliac was to be cleansed.  At this point, 5000 units of aqueous heparin was administered to allow take effect.  The aorta was then clamped below the renal arteries and opened in a longitudinal fashion.  A single lumbar was ligated with #3-0 Prolene.  The inferior mesenteric artery was occluded intraluminally and required no suture closure.  Care was taken to preserve collaterals.  The aorta was measured, and a 16 mm Gore-Tex graft was brought on the field and anastomosed to the proximal aorta using #3-0 Prolene in a running fashion.  Last stitch was tied.  Hemostasis was excellent.  The clamp was gradually removed and additional Prolene was placed in the right posterolateral aspect to obtain better hemostasis.  At this point, strong pulses were present within the graft.  The limbs were vented and irrigated.  Using bimanual technique, the retroperitoneal tunnels were developed immediately on top of the iliac arteries into the groin.  The grafts were then brought through these, care being taken to avoid twisting of the graft.  At this point, the right iliac was then ligated using #0 Vicryl and the clamp was removed.  Hemostasis was excellent.  The right common femoral artery was then clamped proximally and distally, opened with #11 blade extended with Potts scissors.  The graft was _____ and anastomosed to the artery using #5-0 Prolene in a continuous fashion with a stitch _______ running fashion.  Prior to tying the last stitch, the graft and artery were vented and the last stitch was tied.  Flow was initially restored proximally then distally with good results.  Attention was then turned to the left groin and the artery grafts were likewise exposed, cleared proximally and distally.  The artery was opened, extended with a Potts scissors and anastomosis was performed with #5-0 Prolene again with satisfactory hemostasis.  The last stitch was tied.  Strong pulses were present within the artery and graft itself.  At this point, 25 mg of protamine was administered.  The wounds were irrigated with antibiotic solution.  The groins were repacked.  Attention was then returned to the abdomen.  The retroperitoneal area and the anastomotic sites were checked for bleeding and none was present.  The shell of the aorta was closed over the proximal anastomosis and the retroperitoneum was then repaired over the remaining portions of the graft.  The intraabdominal contents were then allowed to resume their normal position.  There was no evidence of ischemia to the large or small bowel.  At this point, the omentum and stomach were repositioned.  The abdominal wall was closed in a running single layer fashion using #1 PDS.  The skin was closed with skin staples.  The groins were again irrigated, closed with #3-0 Vicryl and #4-0 undyed Vicryl and Steri-Strips.  The patient was then taken into the recovery room in satisfactory condition after tolerating the procedure well.  Sponges and instrument counts were correct.  Estimated blood loss 900 cc.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: , Nausea.,PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 28-year-old, who is status post gastric bypass surgery nearly one year ago.  He has lost about 200 pounds and was otherwise doing well until yesterday evening around 7:00-8:00 when he developed nausea and right upper quadrant pain, which apparently wrapped around toward his right side and back.  He feels like he was on it but has not done so.  He has overall malaise and a low-grade temperature of 100.3.  He denies any prior similar or lesser symptoms.  His last normal bowel movement was yesterday.  He denies any outright chills or blood per rectum.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Significant for hypertension and morbid obesity, now resolved.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: , Gastric bypass surgery in December 2007.,MEDICATIONS:  ,Multivitamins and calcium.,ALLERGIES: , None known.,FAMILY HISTORY:  ,Positive for diabetes mellitus in his father, who is now deceased.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , He denies tobacco or alcohol.  He has what sounds like a data entry computer job.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  ,Otherwise negative.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,  His temperature is 100.3, blood pressure 129/59, respirations 16, heart rate 84.  He is drowsy, but easily arousable and appropriate with conversation.  He is oriented to person, place, and situation.  He is normocephalic, atraumatic.  His sclerae are anicteric.  His mucous membranes are somewhat tacky.  His neck is supple and symmetric.  His respirations are unlabored and clear.  He has a regular rate and rhythm.  His abdomen is soft.  He has diffuse right upper quadrant tenderness, worse focally, but no rebound or guarding.  He otherwise has no organomegaly, masses, or abdominal hernias evident.  His extremities are symmetrical with no edema.  His posterior tibial pulses are palpable and symmetric.  He is grossly nonfocal neurologically.,STUDIES:,  His white blood cell count is 8.4 with 79 segs.  His hematocrit is 41.  His electrolytes are normal.  His bilirubin is 2.8.  His AST 349, ALT 186, alk-phos 138 and lipase is normal at 239.,ASSESSMENT: , Choledocholithiasis, ? cholecystitis.,PLAN: , He will be admitted and placed on IV antibiotics.  We will get an ultrasound this morning.  He will need his gallbladder out, probably with intraoperative cholangiogram.  Hopefully, the stone will pass this way.  Due to his anatomy, an ERCP would prove quite difficult if not impossible unless laparoscopic assisted.  Dr. X will see him later this morning and discuss the plan further.  The patient understands.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Left adnexal mass.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Left ovarian lesion.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:  ,Laparoscopy with left salpingo-oophorectomy.,ANESTHESIA:,  General.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Less than 50 cc.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,FINDINGS:,  The labia and perineum were within normal limits.  The hymen was found to be intact.  Laparoscopic findings revealed a 4 cm left adnexal mass, which appeared fluid filled.  There were a few calcifications on the surface of the mass.  The right ovary and fallopian tube appeared normal.  There was no evidence of endometriosis.  The uterus appeared normal in size.  There were no pelvic adhesions noted.,INDICATIONS: , The patient is a 55-year-old gravida 0, para 0 Caucasian female who presents with a left adnexal mass on ultrasound which is 5.3 cm.  She does complain of minimal discomfort.  Bimanual exam was not able to be performed secondary to the vaginal stenosis and completely intact hymen.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , After informed consent was obtained, the patient was taken back to the Operative Suite, prepped and draped, and placed in the dorsal lithotomy position.  A 1 cm skin incision was made in the infraumbilical vault.  While tenting up the abdominal wall, the Veress needle was inserted without difficulty and the abdomen was insufflated.  This was done using appropriate flow and volume of CO2.  The #11 step trocar was then placed without difficulty.  The above findings were confirmed.  A #12 mm port was then placed approximately 2 cm above the pubic symphysis under direct visualization.  Two additional ports were placed, one on the left lateral aspect of the abdominal wall and one on the right lateral aspect of the abdominal wall.  Both #12 step ports were done under direct visualization.  Using a grasper, the mass was tented up at the inferior pelvic ligament and the LigaSure was placed across this and several bites were taken with good visualization while ligating.  The left ovary was then placed in an Endocatch bag and removed through the suprapubic incision.  The skin was extended around this incision and the fascia was extended using the Mayo scissors.  The specimen was removed intact in the Endocatch bag through this site.  Prior to desufflation of the abdomen, the site where the left adnexa was removed was visualized to be hemostatic.  All the port sites were hemostatic as well.  The fascia of the suprapubic incision was then repaired using a running #0 Vicryl stitch on a UR6 needle.  The skin was then closed with #4-0 undyed Vicryl in a subcuticular fashion.  The remaining incisions were also closed with #4-0 undyed Vicryl in a running fashion after all instruments were removed and the abdomen was completely desufflated.  Steri-Strips were placed on each of the incisions.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  Sponge, lap, and needle count were x2.  She will go home on Vicodin for pain and followup postoperatively in the office where we will review path report with her.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: ,  The patient is a 48-year-old man who has had abdominal pain since October of last year associated with a 30-pound weight loss and then developed jaundice.  He had epigastric pain and was admitted to the hospital.  A thin-slice CT scan was performed, which revealed a 4 x 3 x 2 cm pancreatic mass with involved lymph nodes and ring enhancing lesions consistent with liver metastases.  The patient, additionally, had a questionable pseudocyst in the tail of the pancreas.  The patient underwent ERCP on 04/04/2007 with placement of a stent.  This revealed a strictured pancreatic duct, as well as strictured bile duct.  A 10-french x 9 cm stent was placed with good drainage.  The next morning, the patient felt quite a bit more comfortable.  He additionally had a modest drop in his bilirubin and other liver tests.  Of note, the patient has been having quite a bit of nausea during his admission.  This responded to Zofran.  It did not, initially, respond well to Phenergan, though after stent placement, he was significantly more comfortable and had less nausea, and in fact, had better response to the Phenergan itself.  At the time of discharge, the patient's white count was 9.4, hemoglobin 10.8, hematocrit 32 with a MCV of 79, platelet count of 585,000.  His sodium was 132, potassium 4.1, chloride 95, CO2 27, BUN of 8 with a creatinine of 0.3.  His bilirubin was 17.1, alk phos 273, AST 104, ALT 136, total protein 7.8 and albumin of 3.8.  He was tolerating a regular diet.  The patient had been on oral hypoglycemics as an outpatient, but in hospital, he was simply managed with an insulin sliding scale.  The patient will be transferred back to Pelican Bay, under the care of Dr. X at the infirmary.  He will be further managed for his diabetes there.  The patient will additionally undergo potential end of life meetings.  I discussed the potentials of chemotherapy with patient.  Certainly, there are modest benefits, which can be obtained with chemotherapy in metastatic pancreatic cancer, though at some cost with morbidity.  The patient will consider this and will discuss this further with Dr. X.  ,DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:,1.  Phenergan 25 mg q.6. p.r.n.,2.  Duragesic patch 100 mcg q.3.d.,3.  Benadryl 25-50 mg p.o. q.i.d. for pruritus.,4.  Sliding scale will be discontinued at the time of discharge and will be reinstituted on arrival at Pelican Bay Infirmary.,5.  The patient had initially been on enalapril here.  His hypertension will be managed by Dr. X as well.  ,PLAN: , The patient should return for repeat ERCP if there are signs of stent occlusion such as fever, increased bilirubin, worsening pain.  In the meantime, he will be kept on a regular diet and activity per Dr. X.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Recurrent anterior dislocating left shoulder.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Recurrent anterior dislocating left shoulder.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,  Arthroscopic debridement of the left shoulder with attempted arthroscopic Bankart repair followed by open Bankart arthroplasty of the left shoulder.,PROCEDURE:  ,The patient was taken to OR #2, administered general anesthetic after ineffective interscalene block had been administered in the preop area.  The patient was positioned in the modified beachchair position utilizing the Mayfield headrest.  The left shoulder was propped posteriorly with a rolled towel.  His head was secured to the Mayfield headrest.  The left shoulder and upper extremity were then prepped and draped in the usual manner.  A posterior lateral port was made for _____ the arthroscopic cannula.  The scope was introduced into the glenohumeral joint.  There was noted to be a complete tear of the anterior glenoid labrum off from superiorly at about 11:30 extending down inferiorly to about 6 o'clock.  The labrum was adherent to the underlying capsule.  The margin of the glenoid was frayed in this area.  The biceps tendon was noted to be intact.  The articular surface of the glenoid was fairly well preserved.  The articular surface on the humeral head was intact; however, there was a large Hill-Sachs lesion on the posterolateral aspect of the humeral head.  The rotator cuff was visualized and noted to be intact.  The axillary pouch was visualized and it was free of injury.  There were some cartilaginous fragments within the axillary pouch.  Attention was first directed after making an anterior portal to fixation of the anterior glenoid labrum.  Utilizing the Chirotech system through the anterior cannula, the labrum was secured with the pin and drill component and was then tacked back to the superior glenoid rim at about the 11 o'clock position.  A second tack was then placed at about the 8 o'clock position.  The labrum was then probed and was noted to be stable.  With some general ranging of the shoulder, the tissue was pulled out from the tacks.  An attempt was made at placement of two other tacks; however, the tissue was not of good quality to be held in position.  Therefore, all tacks were either buried down to a flat surface or were removed from the anterior glenoid area.  At this point, it was deemed that an open Bankart arthroplasty was necessary.  The arthroscopic instruments were removed.  An anterior incision was made extending from just lateral of the coracoid down toward the axillary fold.  The skin incision was taken down through the skin.  Subcutaneous tissues were then separated with the coag Bovie to provide hemostasis.  The deltopectoral fascia was identified.  It was split at the deltopectoral interval and the deltoid was reflected laterally.  The subdeltoid bursa was then removed with rongeurs.  The conjoint tendon was identified.  The deltoid and conjoint tendons were then retracted with a self-retaining retractor.  The subscapularis tendon was identified.  It was separated about a centimeter from its insertion, leaving the tissue to do sew later.  The subscapularis was reflected off superiorly and inferiorly and the muscle retracted medially.  This allowed for visualization of the capsule.  The capsule was split near the humeral head insertion leaving a tag for repair.  It was then split longitudinally towards the glenoid at approximately 9 o'clock position.  This provided visualization of the glenohumeral joint.  The friable labral and capsular tissue was identified.  The glenoid neck was already prepared for suturing, therefore, three Mitek suture anchors were then positioned to place at approximately 7 o'clock, 9 o'clock, and 10 o'clock.  The sutures were passed through the labral capsular tissue and tied securely.  At this point, the anterior glenoid rim had been recreated.  The joint was then copiously irrigated with gentamicin solution and suctioned dry.  The capsule was then repaired with interrupted #1 Vicryl suture and repaired back to its insertion site with #1 Vicryl suture.  This later was then copiously irrigated with gentamicin solution and suctioned dry.  Subscapularis was reapproximated on to the lesser tuberosity of the humerus utilizing interrupted #1 Vicryl suture.  This later was then copiously irrigated as well and suctioned dry.  The deltoid fascia was approximated with running #2-0 Vicryl suture.  Subcutaneous tissues were approximated with interrupted #2-0 Vicryl and the skin was approximated with a running #4-0 subcuticular Vicryl followed by placement of Steri-Strips.  0.25% Marcaine was placed in the subcutaneous area for postoperative analgesia.  The patient was then placed in a shoulder immobilizer after a bulky dressing had been applied.  The patient was then transferred to the recovery room in apparent satisfactory condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Left distal ureteral stone.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Left distal ureteral stone.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Cystopyelogram, left ureteroscopy, laser lithotripsy, stone basket extraction, stent exchange with a string attached.,ANESTHESIA:,  LMA.,EBL: , Minimal.,FLUIDS: , Crystalloid.  The patient was given antibiotics, 1 g of Ancef and the patient was on oral antibiotics at home.,BRIEF HISTORY: , The patient is a 61-year-old female with history of recurrent uroseptic stones.  The patient had stones x2, 1 was already removed, second one came down, had recurrent episode of sepsis, stent was placed.  Options were given such as watchful waiting, laser lithotripsy, shockwave lithotripsy etc.  Risks of anesthesia, bleeding, infection, pain, need for stent, and removal of the stent were discussed.  The patient understood and wanted to proceed with the procedure.,DETAILS OF THE PROCEDURE: , The patient was brought to the OR.  Anesthesia was applied.  The patient was placed in dorsal lithotomy position.  The patient was prepped and draped in usual sterile fashion.  A 0.035 glidewire was placed in the left system.  Using graspers, left-sided stent was removed.  A semirigid ureteroscopy was done.  A stone was visualized in the mid to upper ureter.  Using laser, the stone was broken into 5 to 6 small pieces.  Using basket extraction, all the pieces were removed.  Ureteroscopy all the way up to the UPJ was done, which was negative.  There were no further stones.  Using pyelograms, the rest of the system appeared normal.  The entire ureter on the left side was open and patent.  There were no further stones.  Due to the edema and the surgery, plan was to leave the stent attached to the string and the patient was to pull the string in about 24 hours.  Over the 0.035 glidewire, a 26 double-J stent was placed.  There was a nice curl in the kidney and one in the bladder.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  Please note that the string was kept in place and the patient was to remove the stent the next day.  The patient's family was instructed how to do so.  The patient had antibiotics and pain medications at home.  The patient was brought to recovery room in a stable condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Cervical degenerative disc disease, spondylosis, severe myelopathy, spinal cord compression especially at C3-C4, C4-C5, and C5-C6, and progressive quadriparesis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Cervical degenerative disc disease, spondylosis, severe myelopathy, spinal cord compression especially at C3-C4, C4-C5, and C5-C6, progressive quadriparesis, and very poor bone quality as well as difficulty with hemostasis with the patient having been on aspirin.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE,1.  Anterior cervical discectomy, osteophytectomy, foraminotomies, spinal cord decompression at C3-C4, C4-C5, and C5-C6.,2.  Microscope.,3.  Fusion with machined allografts at C3-C4, C4-C5, and C5-C6.,4.  Eagle titanium plate from C3 to C6.,5.  Jackson-Pratt drain placement.,6.  Intraoperative monitoring with EMGs and SSEPs.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , 350 cc.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal anesthesia.,COMPLICATIONS:  ,None.,COUNTS: , Correct.,SPECIMENS SENT:  ,None.,CLINICAL HISTORY:  ,The patient is a 77-year-old male who was admitted through the emergency room for progressive weakness and falling.  He was worked by the neurologist, Dr. X, and found to have cervical spondylosis with myelopathy.  I was consulted and elected to do a lumbar and cervical myelogram CT scan, which showed lumbar stenosis but also cervical stenosis with more pathology anteriorly than posteriorly.  The patient had worst disease at level C3-C4, C4-C5, and C5-C6.  The patient was significantly weak and almost quadriparetic, stronger on the right side than on the left side.  I thought that surgery was indicated to prevent progressive neurological deterioration, as well as to prevent a central cord syndrome if the patient were to get into a motor vehicle accident or simply fall.  Conservative management was not an option.  The patient was preoped and consented, and was medically cleared.  I discussed the indications, risks, and benefits of the surgery with the patient and the patient's family.  The risks of bleeding, hoarseness, swallowing difficulty, pseudoarthrosis as well as plate migration and hardware failure were all discussed with the patient.  An informed consent was obtained from the patient as such.  He was brought into the OR today for the operative procedure.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:  ,The patient was brought into the OR, intubated, and given a general anesthetic.  Intubation was done under C-spine precautions.  The patient received preoperative vancomycin and Decadron.  He was hooked up to the SSEP apparatus and had poor baselines and delays.,With a large a shoulder roll, I extended the patient's neck, and landmark incision in crease in the right upper neck, and the area was then prepped and sterilely draped.  All the lines had been put in and the arms were padded.,Using a knife and cautery, I took the incision down through the skin and subcutaneous tissue and arrived at the cervical spine.  Prominent osteophyte at C5-C6 was noted, lesser at C4-C5.  Intraoperative x-ray confirmed our levels, and we were fully exposed from C3-C6.,Trimline retractors were put in, and I cut the discs out as well as removed the superficial hyperstatic bone and osteophytes.,With the drill, I performed a superficial discectomy and endplate resection, curetting the endplate as I went.  I then brought in the microscope, under the microscopic guidance, firmly removed the end plates and drilled through the posterior longitudinal ligament to decompress the spinal cord.  Worst findings at C3-C4 followed C5-C6 and then C4-C5.  Excellent thecal sac decompression was achieved and foraminal decompression was also achieved.  With change in intraoperative monitoring, a microscope was used for this decompressive procedure.,The patient was very oozy throughout this procedure, and during the decompression part, the oozing was constant.  This was partly due to the patient's cancellous bone, but he had been on aspirin which was stopped only 2 days ago, and the option was not available to wait 2 to 3 weeks which would have made this man worse simply over time.  I thus elected to give him DDAVP, platelets, and used Horsley bone wax for excellent hemostasis.  This took literally half-an-hour to an hour and added to the complexity and difficulty of this case.  Eventually, with blood pressure controlled and all the other parameters under control, bleeding was somewhat slow.,I then selected two 10 and one 9-mm cadaveric allograft, which had soaking in bacitracin solution.  These were trimmed to the desired dimensions, and under slight distraction, these were tapped into position.  Excellent graft alignment was achieved.,I now brought in a DePuy titanium eagle plate, and I fixed it to the spine from C3 to C6.  Fourteen millimeter screws were used; all the screws were tightened and torqued.  The patient's bone quality was poor, but the screws did torque appropriately.  I inspected the plate, controlled the hemostasis, assessed post-fixation x-ray, and was really happy with the screw length and the overall alignment.,The wound was irrigated with antibiotic solution; a Jackson-Pratt drain 10-French was put in with trocar.  Decision was made to start the closure.  So, I closed the platysma with 3-0 Vicryl and used staples for the skin.  A simple Primapore or Medpore dressing was applied.  The patient was extubated in the OR and taken to the PSU in stable medical condition.,When I saw the patient in the ICU, he was awake, alert, and moving all four extremities, somewhat weak on the left side.  He had done well from the surgery.  Blood loss was 350 cc.  All instrument, needle, and sponge counts were correct.  No complications, no change in intraoperative monitoring.  No specimens were sent.,The patient's wife was spoken to and fully appraised of the intraoperative findings and the expected prognosis.  The patient will be kept n.p.o. tonight and will gradually advance his diet, and also will gradually advance his activity.  I will keep him on Decadron and keep the collar on.  I do not think there is need for halo rest.  We will be obtaining formal C-spine films in the morning.  Prognosis is guarded but favorable at this time.
1.  Odynophagia.,2.  Dysphagia.,3.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease rule out stricture.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Antral gastritis.,2.  Hiatal hernia.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:  EGD with photos and biopsies.,GROSS FINDINGS:  This is a 75-year-old female who presents with difficulty swallowing, occasional choking, and odynophagia.  She has a previous history of hiatal hernia.  She was on Prevacid currently.  At this time, an EGD was performed to rule out stricture.  At the time of EGD, there was noted some antral gastritis and hiatal hernia.  There are no strictures, tumors, masses, or varices present.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE:  The patient was taken to the Endoscopy Suite in the lateral decubitus position.  She was given sedation by the Department Of Anesthesia.  Once adequate sedation was reached, the Olympus gastroscope was inserted into oropharynx.  With air insufflation entered through the proximal esophagus to the GE junction.  The esophagus was without evidence of tumors, masses, ulcerations, esophagitis, strictures, or varices.  There was a hiatal hernia present.  The scope was passed through the hiatal hernia into the body of the stomach.  In the distal antrum, there was some erythema with patchy erythematous changes with small superficial erosions.  Multiple biopsies were obtained.  The scope was passed through the pylorus into the duodenal bulb and duodenal suite, they appeared within normal limits.  The scope was pulled back from the stomach, retroflexed upon itself, _____ fundus and GE junction.  As stated, multiple biopsies were obtained.,The scope was then slowly withdrawn.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and sent to recovery room in satisfactory condition.
PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,  Phenol neurolysis left musculocutaneous nerve and bilateral obturator nerves.  Botulinum toxin injection left pectoralis major, left wrist flexors, and bilateral knee extensors.,PROCEDURE CODES: , 64640 times three, 64614 times four, 95873 times four.,PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Spastic quadriparesis secondary to traumatic brain injury, 907.0.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Spastic quadriparesis secondary to traumatic brain injury, 907.0.,ANESTHESIA:,  MAC.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,DESCRIPTION OF TECHNIQUE: , Informed consent was obtained from the patient's brother.  The patient was brought to the minor procedure area and sedated per their protocol.  The patient was positioned lying supine.  Skin overlying all areas injected was prepped with chlorhexidine.  The obturator nerves were identified lateral to the adductor longus tendon origin and below the femoral pulse using active EMG stimulation.  Approximately 7 mL was injected on the right side and 5 mL on the left side.  At all sites of phenol injections in this area injections were done at the site of maximum hip adduction contraction with least amount of stimulus.  Negative drawback for blood was done prior to each injection of phenol.  The musculocutaneous nerve was identified in the left upper extremity above the brachial pulse using active EMG stimulation.  Approximately 5 mL of 5% phenol was injected in this location.  Injections in this area were done at the site of maximum elbow flexion contraction with least amount of stimulus.  Negative drawback for blood was done prior to each injection of phenol.,Muscles injected with botulinum toxin were identified using active EMG stimulation.  Approximately 150 units was injected in the knee extensors bilaterally, 100 units in the left pectoralis major, and 50 units in the left wrist flexors.  Total amount of botulinum toxin injected was 450 units diluted 25 units to 1 mL.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and no complications were encountered.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Cervical spondylotic myelopathy with cord compression and cervical spondylosis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Cervical spondylotic myelopathy with cord compression and cervical spondylosis.  In addition to this, he had a large herniated disk at C3-C4 in the midline.,PROCEDURE: , Anterior cervical discectomy fusion C3-C4 and C4-C5 using operating microscope and the ABC titanium plates fixation with bone black bone procedure.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient placed in the supine position, the neck was prepped and draped in the usual fashion.  Incision was made in the midline the anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid at the level of C4.  Skin, subcutaneous tissue, and vertebral muscles divided longitudinally in the direction of the fibers and the trachea and esophagus was retracted medially.  The carotid sheath was retracted laterally after dissecting the longus colli muscle away from the vertebral osteophytes we could see very large osteophytes at C4-C5.  It appeared that the C5-C6 disk area had fused spontaneously.  We then confirmed that position by taking intraoperative x-rays and then proceeded to do discectomy and fusion at C3-C4, C4-C5.,After placing distraction screws and self-retaining retractors with the teeth beneath the bellies of the longus colli muscles, we then meticulously removed the disk at C3-C4, C4-C5 using the combination of angled strip, pituitary rongeurs, and curettes after we had incised the anulus fibrosus with #15 blade.,Next step was to totally decompress the spinal cord using the operating microscope and high-speed cutting followed by the diamond drill with constant irrigation.  We then drilled off the uncovertebral osteophytes and midline osteophytes as well as thinning out the posterior longitudinal ligaments.  This was then removed with 2-mm Kerrison rongeur.  After we removed the posterior longitudinal ligament, we could see the dura pulsating nicely.  We did foraminotomies at C3-C4 as well as C4-C5 as well.  After having totally decompressed both the cord as well as the nerve roots of C3-C4, C4-C5, we proceeded to the next step, which was a fusion.,We sized two 8-mm cortical cancellous grafts and after distracting the bone at C3-C4, C4-C5, we gently tapped the grafts into place.  The distraction was removed and the grafts were now within.  We went to the next step for the procedure, which was the instrumentation and stabilization of the fused area.,We then placed a titanium ABC plate from C3-C5, secured it with 16-mm titanium screws.  X-rays showed good position of the screws end plate.,The next step was to place Jackson-Pratt drain to the vertebral fascia.  Meticulous hemostasis was obtained.  The wound was closed in layers using 2-0 Vicryl for the subcutaneous tissue.  Steri-Strips were used for skin closure.  Blood loss less than about 200 mL.  No complications of the surgery.  Needle counts, sponge count, and cottonoid count was correct.
PROCEDURE:  ,Caudal epidural steroid injection without fluoroscopy.,ANESTHESIA:,  Local sedation.,VITAL SIGNS: , See nurse's records.,PROCEDURE DETAILS: , INT was placed.  The patient was in the prone position.  The back was prepped with Betadine.  Lidocaine 1.5% was used to make a skin wheal over the sacral hiatus.  A 18-gauge Tuohy needle was then placed into the epidural space.  There were no complications from this (no blood or CSF).  After negative aspiration was performed, a mixture of 10 cc preservative free normal saline plus 160 mg preservative free Depo-Medrol was injected.  Neosporin and band-aid were applied over the puncture site.  The patient was then placed in supine position.  The patient was discharged to outpatient recovery in stable condition.
PROCEDURE:,  Left L5 transforaminal epidural steroid injection with 40 mg of Kenalog under fluoroscopic guidance.,INDICATIONS:  ,The patient is a 78-year-old female with back pain referring into the left side.  She has had a couple of epidurals in the past, both of which led to only short-term improvement with intralaminar and caudal placements.  Therefore, transforaminal approach was selected for today's procedure.,Risks and benefits were discussed with the patient.  She agreed to accept the risks and signed informed consent to proceed.,PROCEDURE DETAILS:,  The patient was placed prone on the table.  The skin was thoroughly cleansed with betadine swabs x3 and wiped off with a sterile gauze.  The subcutaneous intramuscular and interligamentous region was anesthetized with buffered 1% lidocaine.,A 5-inch, 22-gauge spinal needle was directed under intermittent fluoroscopic guidance using an oblique approach at the opening of the L5 nerve root.  Once bony contact was made, a lateral was obtained and showed the needle tip to be against the posterior spinal body in the anterior epidural space.  Then an AP view was obtained which showed the needle tip to be below the 6 o'clock position of the pedicle.,EPIDUROGRAM: , Omnipaque 300, 1 mL, was placed through the foraminal opening of the L5 nerve root on the left.  This did show dye spread pattern which was narrowed consistent with foraminal stenosis.  The dye did traverse the foraminal opening and was seen spreading around the pedicle into the anterior epidural space.  It was also spreading peripherally along the L5 nerve root.,The patient tolerated the procedure well.  She did feel that the needle tip was placed at the epicenter of her pain, and this was improved with the placement of the anesthetic.,I will see the patient back in the office in the next few weeks to monitor response of the injection.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:,  Toothache.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,This is a 29-year-old male who has had multiple problems with his teeth due to extensive dental disease and has had many of his teeth pulled.  Complains of new tooth pain.  The patient states his current toothache is to both upper and lower teeth on the left side for approximately three days.  The patient states that he would have gone to see his regular dentist but he has missed so many appointments that they now do not allow him to schedule regular appointments, he has to be on standby appointments only.  The patient denies any other problems or complaints.  The patient denies any recent illness or injuries.  The patient does have OxyContin and Vicodin at home which he uses for his knee pain but he wants more pain medicines because he does not want to use up that medicine for his toothache when he wants to say this with me.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , CONSTITUTIONAL:  No fever or chills.  No fatigue or weakness.  No recent weight change.  HEENT:  No headache, no neck pain, the toothache pain for the past three days as previously mentioned.  There is no throat swelling, no sore throat, no difficulty swallowing solids or liquids.  The patient denies any rhinorrhea.  No sinus congestion, pressure or pain, no ear pain, no hearing change, no eye pain or vision change.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  No chest pain.  RESPIRATIONS:  No shortness of breath or cough.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  No abdominal pain.  No nausea or vomiting.  GENITOURINARY:  No dysuria.  MUSCULOSKELETAL:  No back pain.  No muscle or joint aches.  SKIN:  No rashes or lesions.  NEUROLOGIC:  No vision or hearing change.  No focal weakness or numbness.  Normal speech.  HEMATOLOGIC/LYMPHATIC:  No lymph node swelling has been noted.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Chronic knee pain.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS: , OxyContin and Vicodin.,ALLERGIES:,  PENICILLIN AND CODEINE.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , The patient is still a smoker.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,  VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 97.9 oral, blood pressure is 146/83, pulse is 74, respirations 16, oxygen saturation 98% on room air and interpreted as normal.  CONSTITUTIONAL:  The patient is well nourished and well developed.  The patient is a little overweight but otherwise appears to be healthy.  The patient is calm, comfortable, in no acute distress, and looks well.  The patient is pleasant and cooperative.  HEENT:  Eyes are normal with clear conjunctiva and cornea bilaterally.  There is no icterus, injection, or discharge.  Pupils are 3 mm and equally round and reactive to light bilaterally.  There is no absence of light sensitivity or photophobia.  Extraocular motions are intact bilaterally.  Ears are normal bilaterally without any sign of infection.  There is no erythema, swelling of canals.  Tympanic membranes are intact without any erythema, bulging or fluid levels or bubbles behind it.  Nose is normal without rhinorrhea or audible congestion.  There is no tenderness over the sinuses.  NECK:  Supple, nontender, and full range of motion.  There is no meningismus.  No cervical lymphadenopathy.  No JVD.  Mouth and oropharynx shows multiple denture and multiple dental caries.  The patient has tenderness to tooth #12 as well as tooth #21.  The patient has normal gums.  There is no erythema or swelling.  There is no purulent or other discharge noted.  There is no fluctuance or suggestion of abscess.  There are no new dental fractures.  The oropharynx is normal without any sign of infection.  There is no erythema, exudate, lesion or swelling.  The buccal membranes are normal.  Mucous membranes are moist.  The floor of the mouth is normal without any abscess, suggestion of Ludwig's syndrome.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  Heart is regular rate and rhythm without murmur, rub, or gallop.  RESPIRATIONS:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally without shortness of breath.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  Abdomen is normal and nontender.  MUSCULOSKELETAL:  No abnormalities are noted to back, arms and legs.  The patient has normal use of his extremities.  SKIN:  No rashes or lesions.  NEUROLOGIC:  Cranial nerves II through XII are intact.  Motor and sensory are intact to the extremities.  The patient has normal speech and normal ambulation.  PSYCHIATRIC:  The patient is alert and oriented x4.  Normal mood and affect.  HEMATOLOGIC/LYMPHATIC:  No cervical lymphadenopathy is palpated.,EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT COURSE: , The patient did request a pain shot and the patient was given Dilaudid of 4 mg IM without any adverse reaction.,DIAGNOSES:,1.  ODONTALGIA.,2.  MULTIPLE DENTAL CARIES.,CONDITION UPON DISPOSITION:  ,Stable.,DISPOSITION: , To home.,PLAN: , The patient was given a list of local dental clinics that he can follow up with or he can choose to stay with his own dentist that he wishes.  The patient was requested to have reevaluation within two days.  The patient was given a prescription for Percocet and clindamycin.  The patient was given drug precautions for the use of these medicines.  The patient was offered discharge instructions on toothache but states that he already has it.  He declined the instructions.  The patient was asked to return to the emergency room, should he have any worsening of his condition or develop any other problems or symptoms of concern.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Foreign body, right foot.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Foreign body, right foot.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Incision and drainage, right foot.,2.  Removal of foreign body, right foot.,HISTORY: , This 7-year-old Caucasian male is an inpatient at ABCD General Hospital with a history of falling off his bike and having a root ________ angle inside of his foot.  The patient has had previous I&D but continues to have to purulent drainage.  The patient's parents agreed to performing a surgical procedure to further clean the wound.,PROCEDURE:,  An IV was instituted by the Department of Anesthesia in the preoperative holding area.  The patient was transported to the operating room and placed on the operating table in a supine position with a safety strap across his lap.  General anesthesia was administered by the Department of Anesthesia.  The foot was then prepped and draped in the usual sterile orthopedic fashion.  The stockinette was reflected and the foot was cleansed with wet and dry sponge.  There was noted to be some remaining periwound erythema.  There was noted to be some mild crepitation about 2 cm proximal from the entry wound.  The entry wound was noted to be over the third metatarsal head dorsally.  Upon inspection of the wound, there was noted to be hard foreign filling substance deep within the wound.  The entry site from the foreign body was extended proximally approximately about 0.5 cm.  At this time, a large wooden foreign body was visualized and removed with a straight stat.,The area was carefully inspected for any remaining piece of foreign body.  Several small pieces were noted and they were removed.  The area was palpated and there was no more remaining foreign body noted.  At this time, the wound was inspected thoroughly.  There was noted to be an area along the third metatarsal head more distally that did probe to the bone.  There was no purulent drainage expressed.  Area was flushed with copious amounts of sterile saline.  Pulse lavage was performed with 3 liters of plain sterile saline.  Wound cultures were obtained, aerobic and aerobic.  The wound was then again inspected for any remaining foreign body or purulent drainage.  None was noticed.  The wound was packed with sterile new gauze packing lately and dressings consisted of 4x4s, ABDs, Kling, and Kerlix.,The patient tolerated the above procedure and anesthesia well without complications.  The patient was transported to the PACU with vital signs stable and vascular status intact.  The patient is to be readministered to the pediatrics where daily dressing changes will be performed by podiatry.  The patient had a postoperative pain prescription written for Tylenol, Elixir with codeine as needed.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,This 59-year-old white male is seen for comprehensive annual health maintenance examination on 02/19/08, although this patient is in excellent overall health.  Medical problems include chronic tinnitus in the left ear with moderate hearing loss for many years without any recent change, dyslipidemia well controlled with niacin, history of hemorrhoids with occasional external bleeding, although no problems in the last 6 months, and also history of concha bullosa of the left nostril, followed by ENT associated with slight septal deviation.  There are no other medical problems.  He has no symptoms at this time and remains in excellent health.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Otherwise noncontributory.  There is no operation, serious illness or injury other than as noted above.,ALLERGIES: , There are no known allergies.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Father died of an MI at age 67 with COPD and was a heavy smoker.  His mother is 88, living and well, status post lung cancer resection.  Two brothers, living and well.  One sister died at age 20 months of pneumonia.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  The patient is married.  Wife is living and well.  He jogs or does Cross Country track 5 times a week, and weight training twice weekly.  No smoking or significant alcohol intake.  He is a physician in allergy/immunology.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Otherwise noncontributory.  He has no gastrointestinal, cardiopulmonary, genitourinary or musculoskeletal symptomatology.  No symptoms other than as described above.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  He appears alert, oriented, and in no acute distress with excellent cognitive function.  VITAL SIGNS:  His height is 6 feet 2 inches, weight is 181.2, blood pressure is 126/80 in the right arm, 122/78 in the left arm, pulse rate is 68 and regular, and respirations are 16.  SKIN:  Warm and dry.  There is no pallor, cyanosis or icterus.  HEENT:  Tympanic membranes benign.  The pharynx is benign.  Nasal mucosa is intact.  Pupils are round, regular, and equal, reacting equally to light and accommodation.  EOM intact.  Fundi reveal flat discs with clear margins.  Normal vasculature.  No hemorrhages, exudates or microaneurysms.  No thyroid enlargement.  There is no lymphadenopathy.  LUNGS:  Clear to percussion and auscultation.  Normal sinus rhythm.  No premature beat, murmur, S3 or S4.  Heart sounds are of good quality and intensity.  The carotids, femorals, dorsalis pedis, and posterior tibial pulsations are brisk, equal, and active bilaterally.  ABDOMEN:  Benign without guarding, rigidity, tenderness, mass or organomegaly.  NEUROLOGIC:  Grossly intact.  EXTREMITIES:  Normal.  GU:  Genitalia normal.  There are no inguinal hernias.  There are mild hemorrhoids in the anal canal.  The prostate is small, if any normal to mildly enlarged with discrete margins, symmetrical without significant palpable abnormality.  There is no rectal mass.  The stool is Hemoccult negative.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Comprehensive annual health maintenance examination.,2.  Dyslipidemia.,3.  Tinnitus, left ear.,4.  Hemorrhoids.,PLAN:,  At this time, continue niacin 1000 mg in the morning, 500 mg at noon, and 1000 mg in the evening; aspirin 81 mg daily; multivitamins; vitamin E 400 units daily; and vitamin C 500 mg daily.  Consider adding lycopene, selenium, and flaxseed to his regimen.  All appropriate labs will be obtained today.  Followup fasting lipid profile and ALT in 6 months.
DIAGNOSIS: , T1 N3 M0 cancer of the nasopharynx, status post radiation therapy with 2 cycles of high dose cisplatin with radiation, completed June, 2006; status post 2 cycles  carboplatin/5-FU given as adjuvant therapy, completed September, 2006; hearing loss related to chemotherapy and radiation; xerostomia; history of left upper extremity deep venous thrombosis.,PERFORMANCE STATUS:,  0.,INTERVAL HISTORY: , In the interim since his last visit he has done quite well.  He is working.  He did have an episode of upper respiratory infection and fever at the end of April which got better with antibiotics.  Overall when he compares his strength to six or eight months ago he notes that he feels much stronger.  He has no complaints other than mild xerostomia and treatment related hearing loss.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,Vital Signs:  Height 65 inches, weight 150, pulse 76, blood pressure 112/74, temperature 95.4, respirations 18.,HEENT:  Extraocular muscles intact.  Sclerae not icteric.  Oral cavity free of exudate or ulceration.  Dry mouth noted.,Lymph:  No palpable adenopathy in cervical, supraclavicular or axillary areas.,Lungs:  Clear.,Cardiac:  Rhythm regular.,Abdomen:  Soft, nondistended.  Neither liver, spleen, nor other masses palpable.,Lower Extremities:  Without edema.,Neurologic:  Awake, alert, ambulatory, oriented, cognitively intact.,I reviewed the CT images and report of the study done on May 1.  This showed no evidence of metabolically active malignancy.,Most recent laboratory studies were performed last September and the TSH was normal.  I have asked him to repeat the TSH at the one year anniversary.,He is on no current medications.,In summary, this 57-year-old man presented with T1 N3 cancer of the nasopharynx and is now at 20 months post completion of all therapy.  He has made a good recovery.  We will continue to follow thyroid function and I have asked him to obtain a TSH at the one year anniversary in September and CBC in follow up.  We will see him in six months' time with a PET-CT.,He returns to the general care and direction of Dr. ABC.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Open, displaced, infected left atrophic mandibular fracture; failed dental implant.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Open, displaced, infected left atrophic mandibular fracture; failed dental implant.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) of left atrophic mandibular fracture, removal of failed dental implant from the left mandible.,ANESTHESIA: , General nasotracheal.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , 125 mL.,FLUIDS GIVEN: , 1 L of crystalloids.,SPECIMEN: , Soft tissue from the fracture site sent for histologic diagnosis.,CULTURES: , Also sent for Gram stain, aerobic and anaerobic, culture and sensitivity.,INDICATIONS FOR THE PROCEDURE: , The patient is a 79-year-old male, who fell in his hometown, following an episode of syncope.  He sustained a blunt trauma to his ribs resulting in multiple fractures and presumably also struck his mandible resulting in the above-mentioned fracture.  He was admitted to hospital in Harleton, Texas, where his initial evaluation showed the rib fractures have also showed a nodule on his right upper lobe as well as a mediastinal mass.  His mandible fracture was not noted initially.  The patient also has a history of prostate cancer and a renal cell carcinoma.  The patient at that point underwent a bronchoscopy with a biopsy of the mediastinal mass and the results of that biopsy are still pending.  The patient later saw a local oral surgeon.  He diagnosed his mandible fracture and advised him to seek treatment in Houston.  He presented to my office for evaluation on January 18, 2010, and he was found to have an extremely atrophic mandible with a fracture in the left parasymphysis region involving a failed dental implant, which had been placed approximately 15 years ago.  The patient had significant discomfort and could eat foods and drink fluids with difficulty.  Due to the nature of his fracture and the complex medical history, he was sent to the hospital for admission and following cardiac clearance, he was scheduled for surgery today.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was taken to the operating room, and placed in a supine position.  Following a nasal intubation and induction of general anesthesia, the surgeon then scrubbed, gowned, and gloved in the normal sterile fashion.  The patient was then prepped and draped in a manner consistent with sterile procedures.  A marking pen was first used to outline the incision in the submental region and it was extended from the left mandibular body to the right mandibular body region, approximately 1.5 cm medial to the inferior border of the mandible.  A 1 mL of lidocaine 1% with 1:100,000 epinephrine was then infiltrated along the incision and then a 15-blade was used to incise through the skin and subcutaneous tissue.  A combination of sharp and blunt dissection was then used to carry the dissection superiorly to the inferior border of the mandible.  Electrocautery as well as 4.0 silk ties were used for hemostasis.  A 15-blade was then used to incise the periosteum along the inferior border of the mandible and it was reflected exposing the mandible as well as the fracture site.  The fracture site was slightly distracted allowing access to the dental implant within the bone and it was easily removed from the wound.  Cultures of this site were also obtained and then the granulation tissue from the wound was also curetted free of the wound and sent for a histologic diagnosis.  Manipulation of the mandible was then used to achieve an anatomic reduction and then an 11-hole Synthes reconstruction plate was then used to stand on the fracture site.  Since there was an area of weakness in the right parasymphysis region, in the location of another dental implant, the bone plate was extended posterior to that site.  When the plate was adapted to the mandible, it was then secured to the bone with 9 screws, each being 2 mm in diameter and each screw was placed bicortically.  All the screws were also locking screws.  Following placement of the screws, there was felt to be excellent stability of the fracture, so the wound was irrigated with a copious amount of normal saline.  The incision was closed in multiple layers with 4.0 Vicryl in the muscular and subcutaneous layers and 5.0 nylon in the skin.  A sterile dressing was then placed over the incision.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and was taken to the recovery room with spontaneous respirations and stable vital signs.  Estimated blood loss is 125 mL.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  ,1.  Suspected mastoiditis ruled out.,2.  Right acute otitis media.,3.  Severe ear pain resolving.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is an 11-year-old male who was admitted from the ER after a CT scan suggested that the child had mastoiditis.  The child has had very severe ear pain and blood draining from the right ear.  The child had a temperature maximum of 101.4 in the ER.  The patient was admitted and started on IV Unasyn, which he tolerated well and required Morphine and Vicodin for pain control.  In the first 12 hours after admission, the patient's pain decreased and also swelling of his cervical area decreased.  The patient was evaluated by Dr. X from the ENT while in house.  After reviewing the CT scan, it was felt that the CT scan was not consistent with mastoiditis.  The child was continued on IV fluid and narcotics for pain as well as Unasyn until the time of discharge.  At the time of discharge his pain is markedly decreased about 2/10 and swelling in the area has improved.  The patient is also able to take p.o. well.,DISCHARGE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  The patient is alert, in no respiratory distress.,VITAL SIGNS:  His temperature is 97.6, heart rate 83, blood pressure 105/57, respiratory rate 16 on room air.,HEENT:  Right ear shows no redness.  The area behind his ear is nontender.  There is a large posterior chains node that is nontender and the swelling in this area has decreased markedly.,NECK:  Supple.,CHEST:  Clear breath sounds.,CARDIAC:  Normal S1, S2 without murmur.,ABDOMEN:  Soft.  There is no hepatosplenomegaly or tenderness.,SKIN:  Warm and well perfused.,DISCHARGE WEIGHT: , 38.7 kg.,DISCHARGE CONDITION: , Good.,DISCHARGE DIET:,  Regular as tolerated.,DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  ,1.  Ciprodex Otic Solution in the right ear twice daily.,2.  Augmentin 500 mg three times daily x10 days.,FOLLOW UP:  ,1.  Dr. Y in one week (ENT).,2.  The primary care physician in 2 to 3 days.,TIME SPENT: , Approximate discharge time is 28 minutes.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Intrauterine pregnancy at 39 and 1/7th weeks.,2.  Previous cesarean section, refuses trial of labor.,3.  Fibroid uterus.,4.  Oligohydramnios.,5.  Nonreassuring fetal heart tones.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Intrauterine pregnancy at 39 and 1/7th weeks.,2.  Previous cesarean section, refuses trial of labor.,3.  Fibroid uterus.,4.  Oligohydramnios.,5.  Nonreassuring fetal heart tones.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,  Repeat low-transverse cesarean section via Pfannenstiel incision.,ANESTHESIA:,  General.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:,  1200 cc.,FLUIDS:,  2700 cc.,URINE:,  400 cc clear at the end of the procedure.,DRAINS: , Foley catheter.,SPECIMENS:  ,Placenta, cord gases and cord blood.,INDICATIONS:  ,The patient is a G5 P1 Caucasian female at 39 and 1/7th weeks with a history of previous cesarean section for failure to progress and is scheduled cesarean section for later this day who presents to ABCD Hospital complaining of contractions.  She was found to not be in labor, but had nonreassuring heart tones with a subtle late decelerations and AFOF of approximately 40 mm.  A decision was made to take her for a C-section early.,FINDINGS: , The patient had an enlarged fibroid uterus with a large anterior fibroid with large varicosities, normal appearing tubes and ovaries bilaterally.  There was a live male infant in the ROA position with Apgars of 9 at 1 minute and 9 at 5 minutes and a weight of 5 lb 4 oz.,PROCEDURE: , Prior to the procedure, an informed consent was obtained.  The patient who previously been interested in a tubal ligation refused the tubal ligation prior to surgery.  She states that she and her husband are fully disgusted and that they changed their mind and they were adamant about this.  After informed consent was obtained, the patient was taken to the operating room where spinal anesthetic with Astramorph was administered.  She was then prepped and draped in the normal sterile fashion.  Once the anesthetic was tested, it was found to be inadequate and a general anesthetic was administered.  Once the general anesthetic was administered and the patient was asleep, the previous incision was removed with the skin knife and this incision was then carried through an underlying layer of fascia with a second knife.  The fascia was incised in the midline with a second knife.  This incision was then extended laterally in both directions with the Mayo scissors.  The superior aspect of this fascial incision was then dissected off to the underlying rectus muscle bluntly without using Ochsner clamps.  It was then dissected in the midline with Mayo scissors.  The inferior aspect of this incision was then addressed in a similar manner.  The rectus muscles were then separated in the midline with a hemostat.  The rectus muscles were separated further in the midline with Mayo scissors superiorly and inferiorly.  Next, the peritoneum was grasped with two hemostats, tented up and entered sharply with the Metzenbaum scissors.  This incision was extended inferiorly with the Metzenbaum scissors, being careful to avoid the bladder and the peritoneal incision was extended bluntly.  Next, the bladder blade was placed.  The vesicouterine peritoneum was identified, tenting up with Allis clamps and entered sharply with the Metzenbaum scissors.  This incision was extended laterally in both directions and a bladder flap was created digitally.  The bladder blade was then reinserted.  Next, the uterine incision was made with a second knife and the uterus was entered with the blunt end of the knife.  Next, the uterine incision was extended laterally in both directions with the banded scissors.  Next, the infant's head and body were delivered without difficulty.  There was multiple section on the abdomen.  The cord was clamped and cut.  Section of cord was collected for gases and the cord blood was collected.  Next, the placenta was manually extracted.  The uterus was exteriorized and cleared of all clots and debris.  The edges of the uterine incision were then identified with Allis _______ clamps.  The uterine incision was reapproximated with #0 chromic in a running locked fashion and a second layer of the same suture was used to obtain excellent hemostasis.  One figure-of-eight with #0 chromic was used in one area to prevent a questionable hematoma from expanding along the varicosity for the anterior fibroid.  After several minutes of observation, the hematoma was seem to be non-expanding.  The uterus was replaced in the abdomen.  The uterine incision was reexamined and seem to be continuing to be hemostatic.  The pelvic gutters were then cleared of all clots and debris.  The vesicouterine peritoneum was then reapproximated with #3-0 Vicryl in a running fashion.  The peritoneum was then closed with #0 Vicryl in a running fashion.  The rectus muscles reapproximated with #0 Vicryl in a single interrupted stitch.  The fascia was closed with #0 Vicryl in a running locked fashion and the skin was closed with staples.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  Sponge, lap, and needle counts were correct x3.  The patient was then taken to Recovery in stable condition and she will be followed for immediate postoperative course in the hospital.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: ,I have seen ABC today for her preoperative visit for weight management.  I have explained to her the need for Optifast for weight loss prior to these procedures to make it safer because of the large size of her liver.  She understands this.,IMPRESSION/PLAN:, We are going to put her on two weeks of Optifast at around 900 calories.  I have also explained the risks and potential complications of laparoscopic cholecystectomy to her in detail including bleeding, infection, deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, injury to the small intestine, stomach, liver, leak from the cystic duct, common bile duct, and possible need for ERCP and further surgery.  This surgery is going to be planned for October 6.  This is for cholelithiasis prior to her Lap-Banding procedure.,I have also reviewed with her the risks and potential complications of laparoscopic gastric banding including bleeding, infection, deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, slippage of the band, erosion of the band, injury to the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, spleen, liver, injury to the band, port, or tubing necessitating replacement of the band, port, or tubing among other potential complications and she understands.  We are going to proceed for laparoscopic gastric banding.  I have reviewed her entire chart in detail.  I have also gone over with her the Fairfield County Bariatrics consent form for banding and all the risks.  She has also signed the St. Vincent's Hospital consent form for Lap-Banding.  She has taken the preoperative quiz for banding.  She has signed the preop and postop instructions, and understands them and we reviewed them.  She has taken the quiz and done fairly well.  We have reviewed with her any potential other issues and I have answered her questions.  She is planned for surgical intervention.,
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Rotator cuff tear, left.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Sixty-percent rotator cuff tear, joint side.,2.  Impingement syndrome.,ANESTHESIA: , General,NAME OF OPERATION:,1.  Arthroscopic subacromial decompression.,2.  Repair of rotator cuff through mini-arthrotomy.,FINDINGS AT OPERATION: , The patient's glenohumeral joint was completely clear, other than obvious tear of the rotator cuff.  The midportion of this appeared to be complete, but for the most part, this was about a 60% rupture of the tendon.  This was confirmed later when the bursal side was opened up.  Note, the patient also had abrasion of the coracoacromial ligament under the anterolateral edge of the acromion.  He did not have any acromioclavicular joint pain or acromioclavicular joint disease noted.,PROCEDURE:,  He was given an anesthetic, examined, prepped, and draped in a sterile fashion in a beach-chair position.  The shoulder was instilled with fluid from posteriorly, followed by the arthroscope.  The shoulder was instilled with fluid from posteriorly, followed by the arthroscope.  Arthroscopy was then carried out in standard fashion using a 30-degree Dionic scope.  With the scope in the posterior portal, the above findings were noted, and an anterior portal was established.  A curved shaver was placed for debridement of the tear.  I established this was about a 60-70% tear with a probable complete area of tear which was very small.  There were no problems at the biceps or the rest of the joint.  The subacromial space showed findings, as noted above, and a thorough subacromial decompression was carried out with a Bovie, rotary shaver, and bur.  I did not debride the acromioclavicular joint.  The lateral portal was then extended to a mini-arthrotomy, and subacromial space was entered by blunt dissection through the deltoid.  The area of weakness of the tendon was found, and was transversely cut, and findings were confirmed.  The diseased tissue was removed, and the greater tuberosity was abraded with a rongeur.  Tendon-to-tendon repair was then carried out with buried sutures of 2-0 Ethibond, giving a very nice repair.  The shoulder was carried through a range of motion.  I could see no evidence of impingement.  Copious irrigation was carried out.  The deltoid deep fascia was anatomically closed, as was the superficial fascia.  The subcutaneous tissue and skin were closed in layers.  A sterile dressing was applied.  The patient appeared to tolerate the procedure well.
SUBJECTIVE:,  Mom brings patient in today because of sore throat starting last night.  Eyes have been very puffy.  He has taken some Benadryl when all of this congestion started but with a sudden onset just yesterday.  He has had low-grade fever and just felt very run down, appearing very tired.  He is still eating and drinking well, and his voice has been hoarse but no coughing.  No shortness of breath, vomiting, diarrhea or abdominal pain.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Unremarkable.  There is no history of allergies.  He does have some history of some episodes of high blood pressure, and his weight is up about 14 pounds from the last year.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Noncontributory.  No one else at home is sick.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  A 13-year-old male appearing tired but in no acute distress.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,HEENT:  Ear canals clear.  TMs, bilaterally, gray in color.  Good light reflex.  Oropharynx pink and moist.  No erythema or exudate.  Some drainage is seen in the posterior pharynx.  Nares:  Swollen, red.  No drainage seen.  No sinus tenderness.  Eyes are clear.,Chest:  Respirations are regular and nonlabored.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation throughout.,Heart:  Regular rhythm without murmur.,Skin:  Warm, dry and pink, moist mucous membranes.  No rash.,LABORATORY:,  Strep test is negative.  Strep culture is negative.,RADIOLOGY:,  Water's View of the sinuses is negative for any sinusitis or acute infection.,ASSESSMENT:,  Upper respiratory infection.,PLAN:,  At this point just treat symptomatically.  I gave him some samples of Levall for the congestion and as an expectorant.  Push fluids and rest.  May use ibuprofen or Tylenol for discomfort.
SUBJECTIVE:,  This is an 18-year-old white female who presents for complete physical, Pap, and breast exam and to have paperwork filled out for college.  She denies any problems at this time.  Her last Pap smear was 06/25/2003 and was normal.  She is requesting to switch from Ortho-Tri-Cyclen to Seasonale at this time.  We did discuss that she may have increased episodes of breakthrough bleeding.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Fever blisters and allergic rhinitis.,MEDICATIONS: , Allegra 180 mg q.d., trazodone 50 mg p.r.n. q.h.s., and Ortho-Tri-Cyclen.,ALLERGIES:,  None.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Denies tobacco or drug use, rare alcohol use.  She is sexually active and has had one partner.,FAMILY HISTORY:  ,Positive for rheumatoid arthritis.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  HEENT, pulmonary, cardiovascular, GI, GU, musculoskeletal, neurologic, dermatologic, constitutional, and psychiatric all negative except for HPI.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Height 5 feet 6 inches.  Weight 153 pounds.  Blood pressure 106/72.  Pulse 68.  Respirations 12.  Temperature 97.5.  Last menstrual period 05/30/2004.,General:  She is a well-developed, well-nourished white female in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Tympanic membranes unremarkable.  Oropharynx nonerythematous.  Pupils equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular muscles intact.,Neck:  Supple.  No lymphadenopathy and no thyromegaly.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,CV:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Abdomen:  Positive bowel sounds.  Soft and nontender.  No hepatosplenomegaly.,Breasts:  No nipple discharge.  No lumps or masses palpated.  No dimpling of the skin.  No axillary lymph nodes palpated.  Self-breast exam discussed and encouraged.,Pelvic:  Normal female genitalia.  Normal vaginal rugation.  No cervical lesions.  No cervical motion tenderness.  No adnexal tenderness or masses palpated.,Extremities:  No cyanosis, clubbing, or edema.,Neurologic:  2+/4 DTRs in all extremities.  5/5 motor strength in all extremities.  Negative Romberg.,Musculoskeletal:  No abnormalities or laxity noted in any of her joints.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1.  Complete physical, Pap, and breast exam completed.,2.  School physical form completed and returned to the patient.,3.  Hepatitis B second injection will be given today.,4.  Contraceptive surveillance.  We will put patient to Seasonale to start at the end of this cycle a pill.,5.  Allergic rhinitis.  Prescription was given for Allegra 180 mg q.d.  #30 carrying refills for her to take with her school Cowley County Community College.,6.  Insomnia.  Prescription for trazodone 50 mg p.r.n. q.h.s. was given for her to take with her to school.  She will follow up as needed.
Subsequently, the patient developed a moderately severe depression.  She was tried on various medications, which caused sweating, nightmares and perhaps other side effects.  She was finally put on Effexor 25 mg two tablets h.s. and trazodone 100 mg h.s., and has done fairly well, although she still has significant depression.,Her daughter brought her in today to be sure that she does not have dementia.  There is no history of memory loss.  There is no history of focal neurologic symptoms or significant headaches.,The patient's complaints, according to the daughter, include not wanted to go out in public, shamed regarding her appearance (25-pound weight loss over the past year), eating poorly, not doing things unless asked, hiding food to prevent having to eat it, nervousness, and not taking a shower.  She has no focal neurologic deficits.  She does complain of constipation.  She has severe sleep maintenance insomnia and often sleeps only 2 hours before awakening frequently for the rest of the night.,The patient was apparently visiting her daughter in northern California in December 2003.  She was taken to her daughter's primary care physician.  She underwent vitamin B12 level, RPR, T4 and TSH, all of which were normal.,On 05/15/04, the patient underwent MRI scan of the brain.  I reviewed the scan in the office today.  This shows moderate cortical and central atrophy and also shows mild-to-moderate deep white matter ischemic changes.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , The patient has generally been in reasonably good physical health.  She did have a "nervous breakdown" in 1975 after the death of her husband.  She was hospitalized for several weeks and was treated with ECT.  This occurred while she was living in Korea.,She does not smoke or drink alcoholic beverages.  She has had no prior surgeries.  There is a past history of hypertension, but this is no longer present.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Negative for dementia.  Her mother died of a stroke at the age of 62.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,Vital Signs:  Blood pressure 128/80, pulse 84, temperature 97.4 F, and weight 105 lbs (dressed).,General:  Well-developed, well-nourished Korean female in no acute distress.,Head:  Normocephalic, without evidence of trauma or bruits.,Neck:  Supple, with full range of motion.  No spasm or tenderness.  Carotid pulsations are of normal volume and contour bilaterally without bruits.  No thyromegaly or adenopathy.,Extremities:  No clubbing, cyanosis, edema, or deformity.  Range of motion full throughout.,NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:,Mental Status:  The patient is awake, alert and oriented to time, place, and person and generally appropriate.  She exhibits mild psychomotor retardation and has a flat or depressed affect.  She knows the current president of Korea and the current president of the United States.  She can recall 3 out of 3 objects after 5 minutes.  Calculations are performed fairly well with occasional errors.  There is no right-left confusion, finger agnosia, dysnomia or aphasia.,Cranial Nerves:,II:
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Empyema of the left chest and consolidation of the left lung.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Empyema of the left chest, consolidation of the left lung, lung abscesses of the left upper lobe and left lower lobe.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: , Left thoracoscopy and left thoracotomy with declaudication and drainage of lung abscesses, and multiple biopsies of pleura and lung.,ANESTHESIA:,  General.,FINDINGS: , The patient has a complex history, which goes back about four months ago when she started having respiratory symptoms and one week ago she was admitted to another hospital with hemoptysis and on her evaluation there which included two CAT scans of chest she was found to have marked consolidation of the left lung with a questionable lung abscess or cavity with hydropneumothorax.  There was also noted to be some mild infiltrates of the right lung.  The patient had a 30-year history of cigarette smoking.  A chest tube was placed at the other hospital, which produced some brownish fluid that had foul odor, actually what was thought to be a fecal-like odor.  Then an abdominal CT scan was done, which did not suggest any communication of the bowel into the pleural cavity or any other significant abnormalities in the abdomen on the abdominal CT.  The patient was started on antibiotics and was then taken to the operating room, where there was to be a thoracoscopy performed.  The patient had a flexible fiberoptic bronchoscopy that showed no endobronchial lesions, but there was bloody mucous in the left main stem bronchus and this was suctioned out.  This was suctioned out with the addition of the use of saline ***** in the bronchus.  Following the bronchoscopy, a double lumen tube was placed, but it was not possible to secure the double lumen to the place so we did not proceed with the thoracoscopy on that day.,The patient was transferred for continued evaluation and treatment.  Today, the double lumen tube was placed and there was some erythema of the mucosa noted in the airways in the bronchi and also remarkably bloody secretions were also noted.  These were suctioned, but it was enough to produce a temporary obstruction of the left mainstem bronchus.  Eventually, the double lumen tube was secured and an attempt at a left thoracoscopy was performed after the chest tube was removed and digital dissection was carried out through that.  The chest tube tract, which was about in the sixth or seventh intercostal space, but it was not possible to dissect enough down to get a acceptable visualization through this tract.  A second incision for thoracoscopy was made about on the sixth intercostal space in the midaxillary line and again some digital dissection was carried out but it was not enough to be able to achieve an opening or space for satisfactory inspection of the pleural cavity.  Therefore the chest was opened and remarkable findings included a very dense consolidation of the entire lung such that it was very hard and firm throughout.  Remarkably, the surface of the lower lobe laterally was not completely covered with a fibrotic line, but it was more the line anterior and posterior and more of it over the left upper lobe.  There were many pockets of purulent material, which had a gray-white appearance to it.  There was quite a bit of whitish fibrotic fibrinous deposit on the parietal pleura of the lung especially the upper lobe.  The adhesions were taken down and they were quite bloody in some areas indicating that the process had been present for some time.  There seemed to be an abscess that was about 3 cm in dimension, all the lateral basilar segment of the lower lobe near the area where the chest tube was placed.  Many cultures were taken from several areas.  The most remarkable finding was a large cavity, which was probably about 11 cm in dimension, containing grayish pus and also caseous-like material, it was thought to be perhaps necrotic lung tissue, perhaps a deposit related to tuberculosis in the cavity.,The apex of the lung was quite densely adhered to the parietal pleura there and the adhesions were quite thickened and firm.,PROCEDURE AND TECHNIQUE:,  With the patient lying with the right side down on the operating table the left chest was prepped and draped in sterile manner.  The chest tube had been removed and initially a blunt dissection was carried out through the old chest tube tract, but then it was necessary to enlarge it slightly in order to get the Thoracoport in place and this was done and as mentioned above we could not achieve the satisfactory visualization through this.  Therefore, the next incision for Thoracoport and thoracoscopy insertion through the port was over the sixth intercostal space and a little bit better visualization was achieved, but it was clear that we would be unable to complete the procedure by thoracoscopy.  Therefore posterolateral thoracotomy incision was made, entering the pleural space and what is probably the sixth intercostal space.  Quite a bit of blunt and sharp and electrocautery dissection was performed to take down adhesions to the set of the fibrinous deposit on the pleural cavity.  Specimens for culture were taken and specimens for permanent histology were taken and a frozen section of one of the most quite dense.  Suture ligatures of Prolene were required.  When the cavity was encountered it was due to some compression and dissection of some of the fibrinous deposit in the upper lobe laterally and anterior and this became identified as a very thin layer in one area over this abscess and when it was opened it was quite large and we unroofed it completely and there was bleeding down in the depths of the cavity, which appeared to be from pulmonary veins and these were sutured with a "tissue pledget" of what was probably intercostal nozzle and endothoracic fascia with Prolene sutures.,Also as the upper lobe was retracted in caudal direction the tissue was quite dense and the superior branch of the pulmonary artery on the left side was torn and for hemostasis a 14-French Foley catheter was passed into the area of the tear and the balloon was inflated, which helped establish hemostasis and suturing was carried out again with utilizing a small pledget what was probably intercostal muscle and endothoracic fascia and this was sutured in place and the Foley catheter was removed.  The patch was sutured onto the pulmonary artery tear.  A similar maneuver was utilized on the pulmonary vein bleeding site down deep in the cavity.  Also on the pulmonary artery repair some ***** material was used and also thrombin, Gelfoam and Surgicel.  After reasonably good hemostasis was established pleural cavity was irrigated with saline.  As mentioned, biopsies were taken from multiple sites on the pleura and on the edge and on the lung.  Then two #24 Blake chest tubes were placed, one through a stab wound above the incision anteriorly and one below and one in the inferior pleural space and tubes were brought out through stab wounds necked into the skin with 0 silk.  One was positioned posteriorly and the other anteriorly and in the cephalad direction of the apex.  These were later connected to water-seal suction at 40 cm of water with negative pressure.,Good hemostasis was observed.  Sponge count was reported as being correct.  Intercostal nerve blocks at probably the fifth, sixth, and seventh intercostal nerves was carried out.  Then the sixth rib had been broken and with retraction the fractured ends were resected and rongeur used to smooth out the end fragments of this rib.  Metallic clip was passed through the rib to facilitate passage of an intracostal suture, but the bone was partially fractured inferiorly and it was very difficult to get the suture out through the inner cortical table, so that pericostal sutures were used with #1 Vicryl.  The chest wall was closed with running #1 Vicryl and then 2-0 Vicryl subcutaneous and staples on the skin.  The chest tubes were connected to water-seal drainage with 40 cm of water negative pressure.  Sterile dressings were applied.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and was turned in the supine position where the double lumen endotracheal tube was switched out with single lumen.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and was taken to the intensive care unit in satisfactory condition.
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:,  Painful right knee status post total knee arthroplasty many years ago.  The patient had gradual onset of worsening soreness and pain in this knee.  X-ray showed that the poly seems to be worn out significantly in this area.,DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:,  Status post poly exchange, right knee, total knee arthroplasty.,CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:,  Stable.,PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,  Poly exchange total knee, right.,CONSULTATIONS: , Anesthesia managed femoral nerve block on the patient.,HOSPITAL COURSE:  ,The patient was admitted with revision right total knee arthroplasty and replacement of patellar and tibial poly components.  The patient recovered well after this.  Working with PT, she was able to ambulate with minimal assistance.  Nerve block was removed by anesthesia.  The patient did well on oral pain medications.  The patient was discharged home.  She is actually going to home with her son who will be able to assist her and look after her for anything she might need.  The patient is comfortable with this, understands the therapy regimen, and is very satisfied after the procedure.,DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS AND MEDICATIONS: , The patient is to be discharged home to the care of the son.  Diet is regular.  Activity, weight bear as tolerated right lower extremity.  Continue to do physical therapy exercises.  The patient will be discharged home on Coumadin 4 mg a day as the INR was 1.9 on discharge with twice weekly lab checks.  Vicodin 5/500 mg take one to two tablets p.o. q.4-6h.  Resume home medications.  Call the office or return to the emergency room for any concerns including increased redness, swelling, drainage, fever, or any concerns regarding operation or site of incision.  The patient is to follow up with Dr. ABC in two weeks.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:,  Joints are hurting all over and checkup.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  A 77-year-old white female who is having more problems with joint pain.  It seems to be all over decreasing her mobility, hands and wrists.  No real swelling but maybe just a little more uncomfortable than they have been.  The Daypro generic does not seem to be helping at all.  No fever or chills.  No erythema.,She actually is doing better.  Her diarrhea now has settled down and she is having less urinary incontinence, less pedal edema.  Blood sugars seem to be little better as well.,The patient also has gotten back on her Zoloft because she thinks she may be depressed, sleeping all the time, just not herself and really is disturbed that she cannot be more mobile in things.  She has had no polyuria, polydipsia, or other problems.  No recent blood pressure checks.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Little over a year ago, the patient was found to have lumbar discitis and was treated with antibiotics and ended up having debridement and instrumentation with Dr. XYZ and is doing really quite well.  She had a pulmonary embolus with that hospitalization.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:,  She has also had a hysterectomy, salpingoophorectomy, appendectomy, tonsillectomy, two carpal tunnel releases.  She also has had a parathyroidectomy but still has had some borderline elevated calcium.  Also, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, as well as diabetes.  She also has osteoporosis.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  The patient still smokes about a third of a pack a day, also drinks only occasional alcoholic drinks.  The patient is married.  She has three grown sons, all of which are very successful in professional positions.  One son is a gastroenterologist in San Diego, California.,MEDICATIONS:,  Nifedipine-XR 90 mg daily, furosemide 20 mg half tablet b.i.d., lisinopril 20 mg daily, gemfibrozil 600 mg b.i.d., Synthroid 0.1 mg daily, Miacalcin one spray in alternate nostrils daily, Ogen 0.625 mg daily, Daypro 600 mg t.i.d., also Lortab 7.5 two or three a day, also Flexeril occasionally, also other vitamin.,ALLERGIES: , She had some adverse reactions to penicillin, sulfa, perhaps contrast medium, and some mycins.,FAMILY HISTORY:,  As far as heart disease there is none in the family.  As far as cancer two cousins had breast cancer.  As far as diabetes father and grandfather had type II diabetes.  Son has type I diabetes and is struggling with that at the moment.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,General:  No fever, chills, or night sweats.  Weight stable.,HEENT:  No sudden blindness, diplopia, loss of vision, i.e., in one eye or other visual changes.  No hearing changes or ear problems.  No swallowing problems or mouth lesions.,Endocrine:  Hypothyroidism but no polyuria or polydipsia.  She watches her blood sugars.  They have been doing quite well.,Respiratory:  No shortness of breath, cough, sputum production, hemoptysis or breathing problems.,Cardiovascular:  No chest pain or chest discomfort.  No paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, orthopnea, palpitations, or heart attacks.,GI:  As mentioned, has had diarrhea though thought to be possibly due to Clostridium difficile colitis that now has gotten better.  She has had some irritable bowel syndrome and bowel abnormalities for years.,GU:  No urinary problems, dysuria, polyuria or polydipsia, kidney stones, or recent infections.  No vaginal bleeding or discharge.,Musculoskeletal:  As above.,Hematological:  She has had some anemia in the past.,Neurological:  No blackouts, convulsions, seizures, paralysis, strokes, or headaches.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,Vital Signs:  Weight is 164 pounds.  Blood pressure:  140/64.  Pulse:  72.  Blood pressure repeated by me with the patient sitting taken on the right arm is 148/60, left arm 136/58; these are while sitting on the exam table.,General:  A well-developed pleasant female who is comfortable in no acute distress otherwise but she does move slowly.,HEENT:  Skull is normocephalic.  TMs intact and shiny with good auditory acuity to finger rub.  Pupils equal, round, reactive to light and accommodation with extraocular movements intact.  Fundi benign.  Sclerae and conjunctivae were normal.,Neck:  No thyromegaly or cervical lymphadenopathy.  Carotids are 2+ and equal bilaterally and no bruits present.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation and percussion with good respiratory movement.  No bronchial breath sounds, egophony, or rales are present.,Heart:  Regular rhythm and rate with no murmurs, gallops, rubs, or enlargement.  PMI normal position.  All pulses are 2+ and equal bilaterally.,Abdomen:  Obese, soft with no hepatosplenomegaly or masses.,Breasts:  No predominant masses, discharge, or asymmetry.,Pelvic Exam:  Normal external genitalia, vagina and cervix.  Pap smear done.  Bimanual exam shows no uterine enlargement and is anteroflexed.  No adnexal masses or tenderness.  Rectal exam is normal with soft brown stool Hemoccult negative.,Extremities:  The patient does appear to have some doughiness of all of the MCP joints of the hands and the wrists as well.  No real erythema.  There is no real swelling of the knees.  No new pedal edema.,Lymph nodes:  No cervical, axillary, or inguinal adenopathy.,Neurological:  Cranial nerves II-XII are grossly intact.  Deep tendon reflexes are 2+ and equal bilaterally.  Cerebellar and motor function intact in all extremities.  Good vibratory and positional sense in all extremities and dermatomes.  Plantar reflexes are downgoing bilaterally.,LABORATORY:  ,CBC shows a hemoglobin of 10.5, hematocrit 35.4, otherwise normal.  Urinalysis is within normal limits.  Chem profile showed a BUN of 54, creatinine 1.4, glucose 116, calcium was 10.8, cholesterol 198, triglycerides 171, HDL 43, LDL 121, TSH is normal, hemoglobin A1C is 5.3.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Arthralgias that are suspicious for inflammatory arthritis, but certainly seems to be more active and bothersome.  I think we need to look at this more closely.,2.  Diarrhea that seems to have resolved.  Whether this is related to the above is unclear.,3.  Diabetes mellitus type II, really fairly well controlled.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  This 66-year-old white male was seen in my office on Month DD, YYYY.  Patient was recently discharged from Doctors Hospital at Parkway after he was treated for pneumonia.  Patient continues to have severe orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, cough with greenish expectoration.  His exercise tolerance is about two to three yards for shortness of breath.  The patient stopped taking Coumadin for reasons not very clear to him.  He was documented to have recent atrial fibrillation.  Patient has longstanding history of ischemic heart disease, end-stage LV systolic dysfunction, and is status post ICD implantation.  Fasting blood sugar this morning is 130.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , ,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure is 120/60.  Respirations 18 per minute.  Heart rate 75-85 beats per minute, irregular.  Weight 207 pounds.,HEENT:  Head normocephalic.  Eyes, no evidence of anemia or jaundice.  Oral hygiene is good. ,NECK:  Supple.  JVP is flat.  Carotid upstroke is good. ,LUNGS:  Severe inspiratory and expiratory wheezing heard throughout the lung fields.  Fine crepitations heard at the base of the lungs on both sides. ,CARDIOVASCULAR:  PMI felt in fifth left intercostal space 0.5-inch lateral to midclavicular line. First and second heart sounds are normal in character.  There is a II/VI systolic murmur best heard at the apex.,ABDOMEN:  Soft.  There is no hepatosplenomegaly.,EXTREMITIES:  Patient has 1+ pedal edema.,MEDICATIONS: , ,1.  Ambien 10 mg at bedtime p.r.n.,2.  Coumadin 7.5 mg daily.,3.  Diovan 320 mg daily.,4.  Lantus insulin 50 units in the morning.,5.  Lasix 80 mg daily.,6.  Novolin R p.r.n.,7.  Toprol XL 100 mg daily.,8.  Flovent 100 mcg twice a day.,DIAGNOSES:,1.  Atherosclerotic coronary vascular disease with old myocardial infarction.,2.  Moderate to severe LV systolic dysfunction.,3.  Diabetes mellitus.,4.  Diabetic nephropathy and renal failure.,5.  Status post ICD implantation.,6.  New onset of atrial fibrillation.,7.  Chronic Coumadin therapy.,PLAN:,1.  Continue present therapy.,2.  Patient will be seen again in my office in four weeks.
PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,  PICC line insertion.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:,  The patient was identified by myself on presentation to the angiography suite.  His right arm was prepped and draped in sterile fashion from the antecubital fossa up.  Under ultrasound guidance, a #21-gauge needle was placed into his right cephalic vein.  A guidewire was then threaded through the vein and advanced without difficulty.  An introducer was then placed over the guidewire.  We attempted to manipulate the guidewire to the superior vena cava; however, we could not pass the point of the subclavian vein and we tried several maneuvers and then opted to do a venogram.  What we did was we injected approximately 4 mL of Visipaque 320 contrast material through the introducer and did a mapping venogram and it turned out that the cephalic vein was joining into the subclavian vein.  It was very tortuous area.  We made several more attempts using the mapping system to pass the glide over that area, but we were unable to do that.  Decision was made at that point then to just do a midline catheter.  The catheter was cut to 20 cm, then we inserted back to the introducer.  The introducer was removed.  The catheter was secured by two #3-0 silk sutures.  Appropriate imaging was then taken.  Sterile dressing was applied.  The patient tolerated the procedure nicely and was discharged from Angiography in satisfactory condition back to the general floor.  We may make another attempt in the near future using a different approach.,
CC:, Progressive lower extremity weakness.,HX: ,This 54 y/o RHF presented on 7/3/93 with a 2 month history of lower extremity weakness. She was admitted to a local hospital on 5/3/93 for a 3 day h/o of progressive BLE weakness associated with incontinence and BLE numbness. There was little symptom of upper extremity weakness at that time, according to the patient. Her evaluation was notable for a bilateral L1 sensory level and 4/4 strength in BLE. A T-L-S Spine MRI revealed a T4-6 lipomatosis with anterior displacement of the cord without cord compression. CSF analysis yielded: opening pressure of 14cm H20, protein 88, glucose 78, 3 lymphocytes and 160 RBC, no oligoclonal bands or elevated IgG index, and negative cytology. Bone marrow biopsy was negative. B12, Folate, and Ferritin levels were normal. CRP 5.2 (elevated). ANA was positive at 1:5,120 in speckled pattern. Her hospital course was complicated by deep venous thrombosis, which recurred after heparin was stopped to do the bone marrow biopsy. She was subsequently placed on Coumadin. EMG/NCV testing revealed " lumbosacral polyradiculopathy with axonal degeneration and nerve conduction block." She was diagnosed with atypical Guillain-Barre vs. polyradiculopathy and received a single course of Decadron; and no plasmapheresis or IV IgG. She was discharged home o 6/8/93.,She subsequently did not improve and after awaking from a nap on her couch the day of presentation, 7/3/93, she found she was paralyzed from the waist down. There was associated mild upper lumbar back pain without radiation. She had had no bowel movement or urination since that time. She had no recent trauma, fever, chills, changes in vision, dysphagia or upper extremity deficit.,MEDS:, Coumadin 7.5mg qd, Zoloft 50mg qd, Lithium 300mg bid.,PMH:, 1) Bi-polar Affective Disorder, dx 1979 2) C-section.,FHX:, Unremarkable.,SHX:, Denied Tobacco/ETOH/illicit drug use.,EXAM: ,BP118/64, HR103, RR18, Afebrile.,MS: ,A&O to person, place, time. Speech fluent without dysarthria. Lucid thought processes.,CN: ,Unremarkable.,MOTOR:, 5/5 strength in BUE. Plegic in BLE. Flaccid muscle tone.,SENSORY:, L1 sensory level (bilaterally) to PP and TEMP, without sacral sparing. Proprioception was lost in both feet.,CORD: ,Normal in BUE.,Reflexes were 2+/2+ in BUE. They were not elicited in BLE. Plantar responses were equivocal, bilaterally.,RECTAL: ,Poor rectal tone. stool guaiac negative. She had no perirectal sensation.,COURSE:, CRP 8.8 and ESR 76. FVC 2.17L. WBC 1.5 (150 bands, 555 neutrophils, 440 lymphocytes and 330 monocytes), Hct 33%, Hgb 11.0, Plt 220K, MCV 88, GS normal except for slightly low total protein (8.0). LFT were normal. Creatinine 1.0. PT and PTT were normal. ABCG 7.46/25/79/96% O2Sat. UA notable for 1+ proteinuria. EKG normal.,MRI L-spine, 7/3/93, revealed an area of abnormally increased T2 signal extending from T12 through L5. This area causes anterior displacement of the spinal cord and nerve roots. The cauda equina are pushed up against the posterior L1 vertebral body. There bilaterally pulmonary effusions. There is also abnormally increased T2 signal in the center of the spinal cord extending from the mid thoracic level through the conus. In addition, the Fila Terminale appear thickened. There is increased signal in the T3 vertebral body suggestion a hemangioma. The findings were felt consistent with a large epidural lipoma displacing the spinal cord anteriorly. there also appeared spinal cord swelling and increased signal within the spinal cord which suggests an intramedullary process.,CSF analysis revealed: protein 1,342, glucose 43, RBC 4,900, WBC 9. C3 and C$ complement levels were 94 and 18 respectively (normal) Anticardiolipin antibodies were negative. Serum Beta-2 microglobulin was elevated at 2.4 and 3.7 in the CSF and Serum, respectively. It was felt the patient had either a transverse myelitis associated with SLE vs. partial cord infarction related to lupus vasculopathy or hypercoagulable state. She was place on IV Decadron. Rheumatology felt that a diagnosis of SLE was likely. Pulmonary effusion analysis was consistent with an exudate. She was treated with plasma exchange and place on Cytoxan.,On 7/22/93 she developed fever with associated proptosis and sudden loss of vision, OD. MRI Brain, 7/22/93, revealed a 5mm thick area of intermediate signal adjacent to the posterior aspect of the right globe, possibly representing hematoma. Ophthalmology felt she had a central retinal vein occlusion; and it was surgically decompressed.,She was placed on prednisone on 8/11/93 and Cytoxan was started on 8/16/93. She developed a headache with meningismus on 8/20/93. CSF analysis revealed: protein 1,002, glucose2, WBC 8,925 (majority were neutrophils). Sinus CT scan negative. She was placed on IV Antibiotics for presumed bacterial meningitis. Cultures were subsequently negative. She spontaneously recovered. 8/25/93, cisternal tap CSF analysis revealed: protein 126, glucose 35, WBC 144 (neutrophils), RBC 95, Cultures negative, cytology negative. MRI Brain scan revealed diffuse leptomeningeal enhancement in both brain and spinal canal.,DSDNA negative. She developed leukopenia in 9/93, and she was switched from Cytoxan to Imuran. Her LFT's rose and the Imuran was stopped and she was placed back on prednisone.,She went on to have numerous deep venous thrombosis while on Coumadin. This required numerous hospital admissions for heparinization. Anticardiolipin antibodies and Protein C and S testing was negative.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Cervical spondylosis at C3-C4 with cervical radiculopathy and spinal cord compression.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Cervical spondylosis at C3-C4 with cervical radiculopathy and spinal cord compression.,OPERATION PERFORMED,1.  Anterior cervical discectomy of C3-C4.,2.  Removal of herniated disc and osteophytes.,3.  Bilateral C4 nerve root decompression.,4.  Harvesting of bone for autologous vertebral bodies for creation of arthrodesis.,5.  Grafting of fibular allograft bone for creation of arthrodesis.,6.  Creation of arthrodesis via an anterior technique with fibular allograft bone and autologous bone from the vertebral bodies.,7.  Placement of anterior spinal instrumentation using the operating microscope and microdissection technique.,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: , This 62-year-old man has progressive and intractable right C4 radiculopathy with neck and shoulder pain.  Conservative therapy has failed to improve the problem.  Imaging studies showed severe spondylosis of C3-C4 with neuroforaminal narrowing and spinal cord compression.,A detailed discussion ensued with the patient as to the nature of the procedure including all risks and alternatives.  He clearly understood it and had no further questions and requested that I proceed.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was placed on the operating room table and was intubated using a fiberoptic technique.  The methylprednisolone spinal cord protocol was instituted with bolus and continuous infusion doses.  The neck was carefully prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner.,A transverse incision was made on a skin crease on the left side of the neck.  Dissection was carried down through the platysmal musculature and the anterior spine was exposed.  The medial borders of the longus colli muscles were dissected free from their attachments to the spine.  A needle was placed and it was believed to be at the C3-C4 interspace and an x-ray properly localized this space.  Castoff self-retaining pins were placed into the body of the C3 and C4.  Self-retaining retractors were placed in the wound keeping the blades of the retractors underneath the longus colli muscles.,The annulus was incised and a discectomy was performed.  Quite a bit of overhanging osteophytes were identified and removed.  As I worked back to the posterior lips of the vertebral body, the operating microscope was utilized.,There was severe overgrowth of spondylitic spurs.  A high-speed diamond bur was used to slowly drill these spurs away.  I reached the posterior longitudinal ligament and opened it and exposed the underlying dura.,Slowly and carefully I worked out towards the C3-C4 foramen.  The dura was extremely thin and I could see through it in several areas.  I removed the bony compression in the foramen and identified soft tissue and veins overlying the root.  All of these were not stripped away for fear of tearing this very tissue-paper-thin dura.  However, radical decompression was achieved removing all the bony compression in the foramen, out to the pedicle, and into the foramen.  An 8-mm of the root was exposed although I left the veins over the root intact.,The microscope was angled to the left side where a similar procedure was performed.,Once the decompression was achieved, a high-speed cortisone bur was used to decorticate the body from the greater posterior shelf to prevent backward graft migration.  Bone thus from the drilling was preserved for use for the arthrodesis.,Attention was turned to creation of the arthrodesis.  As I had drilled quite a bit into the bodies, I selected a large 12-mm graft and distracted the space maximally.  Under distraction the graft was placed and fit well.  An x-ray showed good graft placement.,Attention was turned to spinal instrumentation.  A Synthes Short Stature plate was used with four 3-mm screws.  Holes were drilled with all four screws were placed with pretty good purchase.  Next, the locking screws were then applied.  An x-ray was obtained which showed good placement of graft, plate, and screws.  The upper screws were near the upper endplate of C3.  The C3 vertebral body that remained was narrow after drilling off the spurs.  Rather than replace these screws and risk that the next holes would be too near the present holes I decided to leave these screws intact because their position is still satisfactory as they are below the disc endplate.,Attention was turned to closure.  A Hemovac drain was placed in the anterior vertebral body space and brought out through a separate stab wound incision in the skin.  The wound was then carefully closed in layers.  Sterile dressings were applied along with a rigid Philadelphia collar.  The operation was then terminated.,The patient tolerated the procedure well and left for the recovery room in excellent condition.  The sponge and needle counts were reported as correct and there were no intraoperative complications.,Specimens were sent to Pathology consisted of bone and soft tissue as well as C3-C4 disc material.
ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS: , Intractable migraine with aura.,DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:,  Migraine with aura.,SECONDARY DIAGNOSES:,1.  Bipolar disorder.,2.  Iron deficiency anemia.,3.  Anxiety disorder.,4.  History of tubal ligation.,PROCEDURES DURING THIS HOSPITALIZATION:,1.  CT of the head with and without contrast, which was negative.,2.  An MRA of the head and neck with and without contrast also negative.,3.  The CTA of the neck also read as negative.,4.  The patient also underwent a lumbar puncture in the Emergency Department, which was grossly unremarkable though an opening pressure was not obtained.,HOME MEDICATIONS:,1.  Vicodin 5/500 p.r.n.,2.  Celexa 40 mg daily.,3.  Phenergan 25 mg p.o. p.r.n.,4.  Abilify 10 mg p.o. daily.,5.  Klonopin 0.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.,6.  Tramadol 30 mg p.r.n.,7.  Ranitidine 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.,ALLERGIES:,  SULFA drugs.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 25-year-old right-handed Caucasian female who presented to the emergency department with sudden onset of headache occurring at approximately 11 a.m. on the morning of the July 31, 2008.  She described the headache as worse in her life and it was also accompanied by blurry vision and scotoma.  The patient also perceived some swelling in her face.  Once in the Emergency Department, the patient underwent a very thorough evaluation and examination.  She was given the migraine cocktail.  Also was given morphine a total of 8 mg while in the Emergency Department.  For full details on the history of present illness, please see the previous history and physical.,BRIEF SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  ,The patient was admitted to the neurological service after her headache felt to be removed with the headache cocktail.  The patient was brought up to 4 or more early in the a.m. on the August 1, 2008 and was given the dihydroergotamine IV, which did allow some minimal resolution in her headache immediately.  At the time of examination this morning, the patient was feeling better and desired going home.  She states the headache had for the most part resolved though she continues to have some diffuse trigger point pain.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AT THE TIME OF DISCHARGE: , General physical exam was unremarkable.  HEENT:  Pupils were equal and respond to light and accommodation bilaterally.  Extraocular movements were intact.  Visual fields were intact to confrontation.  Funduscopic exam revealed no disc pallor or edema.  Retinal vasculature appeared normal.  Face is symmetric.  Facial sensation and strength are intact.  Auditory acuities were grossly normal.  Palate and uvula elevated symmetrically.  Sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles are full strength bilaterally.  Tongue protrudes in midline.  Mental status exam: revealed the patient alert and oriented x 4.  Speech was clear and language is normal.  Fund of knowledge, memory, and attention are grossly intact.  Neurologic exam:  Vasomotor system revealed full power throughout.  Normal muscle tone and bulk.  No pronator drift was appreciated.  Coordination was intact to finger-to-nose, heel-to-shin and rapid alternating movement.  No tremor or dysmetria.  Excellent sensory.  Sensation is intact in all modalities throughout. The patient does have notable trigger points diffusely including the occiput, trapezius bilaterally, lumbar, back, and sacrum.  Gait was assessed, the patient's routine and tandem gait were normal.  The patient is able to balance on heels and toes.  Romberg is negative.  Reflexes are 2+ and symmetric throughout.  Babinski reflexes are plantar.,DISPOSITION:,  The patient is discharged home.,INSTRUCTIONS FOR FOLLOWUP:  ,The patient is to followup with her primary care physician as needed.
EXAM:,  Renal ultrasound.,HISTORY: , Renal failure, neurogenic bladder, status-post cystectomy.,TECHNIQUE: , Multiple ultrasonographic images of the kidneys were obtained in the transverse and longitudinal planes.,COMPARISON:,  Most recently obtained mm/dd/yy.,FINDINGS:,  The right kidney measures 12 x 5.2 x 4.6 cm and the left kidney measures 12.2 x 6.2 x 4.4 cm.  The imaged portions of the kidneys fail to demonstrate evidence of mass, hydronephrosis or calculus.  There is no evidence of cortical thinning.,Incidentally there is a rounded low-attenuation mass within the inferior aspect of the right lobe of the liver measuring 2.1 x 1.5 x 1.9 cm which has suggestion of some peripheral blood flow.,IMPRESSION:,1.  No evidence of hydronephrosis.,2.  Mass within the right lobe of the liver.  The patient apparently has a severe iodine allergy.  Further evaluation with MRI is recommended.,3.  The results of this examination were given to XXX in Dr. XXX office on mm/dd/yy at XXX,
CHIEF COMPLAINT:,  Workerâ€™s compensation injury.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  The patient is a 21-year-old Hispanic female.  She comes in today with her boyfriend.  The patient speaks English fairly well, but her primary language is Spanish.  Her boyfriend does help to make sure that she understands what we are talking about.  The patient seems to understand our conversation fairly well.  She works at Norcraft and injured her right thumb on 09/10/2004 at 12:15 a.m.  She was pushing a cart and mashed her thumb between the cart and the wall.  This was at the finishing room in Norcraft.  She went ahead and went to work yesterday, which was the 14th, but was not able to work on the 13th.  She has swelling in her thumb.  It hurt only if it is pushed on.  It was the distal end of her thumb that was mashed.  She has not noticed any numbness or tingling or weakness.  She has not sought any treatment for this, is not taking any pain medications.  She did try soaking it in warm salt water and did not notice any improvement.,MEDICATIONS: , None.,ALLERGIES: , None.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Possible history of chicken pox, otherwise no other medical illnesses.  She has never had any surgery.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Parents and two siblings are healthy.  She has had no children.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  The patient is single.  She lives with her boyfriend and his father.  She works at Norcraft.  She wears seatbelt 30% of the time.  I encouraged her to use them all of the time.  She is a nonsmoker, nondrinker.,VACCINATIONS: , She thinks she got a tetanus vaccine in childhood, but does not know for sure.  She does not think she has had a tetanus booster recently.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,Constitutional:  No fevers, chills, or sweats.,Neurologic:  She has had no numbness, tingling, or weakness.,Musculoskeletal:  As above in HPI.  No other difficulties.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  This is a well-developed, well-nourished, very pleasant Hispanic female, in no acute distress.,Vital Signs:  Weight:  121.4.  Blood pressure:  106/78.  Pulse:  64.  Respirations:  20.  Temperature:  96.,Extremities:  Examination of the right hand reveals the distal end of the thumb to be swollen especially just proximal to the nail bed.  The nail bed is pushed up.  I can see hematoma below the nail bed, although it does appear to be intact.  She has some blue fingernail polish on her nail also, but that is starting to come off.  She is able to bend her thumb normally at the DIP joint.  She has no discomfort doing that.  Sensation is intact over the entire thumb.  She has normal capillary refill.  There is some erythema and swelling noted especially over the posterior thumb just proximal to the nail bed.  I am not feeling any fluctuance.  I do not think it is a collection of pus.  There is no drainage.  She does have some small fissures in the skin where I think she did injure it with this smashing injury, but no deep lacerations at all.  It looks like there may be some mild cellulitis at the site of her injury.,LABORATORY:,  X-ray of the thumb was obtained and I do not see any sign of fracture or foreign body.,ASSESSMENT:,  Blunt trauma to the distal right thumb without fracture.  I think there is some mild cellulitis developing there.,PLAN:,1.  We will give a tetanus diphtheria booster.,2.  We will start Keflex 500 mg one p.o. q.i.d. x 7 days.  I would recommend that she can return to work, but she is not to do any work that requires the use of her right thumb.  I would like to see her back on Monday, the 20th in the morning and we can see how her thumb is doing at that time.  If she is noticing any difficulties with increased redness, increased warmth, increased pain, pus-like drainage, or any other difficulties, she is to go ahead and give us a call.  Otherwise I will be seeing her back on Monday.
NAME OF PROCEDURE:,  Successful stenting of the left anterior descending.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:,  Angina pectoris, tight lesion in left anterior descending.,TECHNIQUE OF PROCEDURE:,  Standard Judkins, right groin.,CATHETERS USED: , 6 French Judkins, right; wire, 14 BMW; balloon for predilatation, 25 x 15 CrossSail; stent 2.5 x 18 Cypher drug-eluting stent.,ANTICOAGULATION:  ,The patient was on aspirin and Plavix, received 3000 of heparin and was begun on Integrilin.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,INFORMED CONSENT: , I reviewed with the patient the pros, cons, alternatives and risks of catheter and sedation exactly as I had done before during his diagnostic catheterization, plus I reviewed the risks of intervention including lack of success, need for emergency surgery, need for later restenosis and further procedures.,HEMODYNAMIC DATA: , The aortic pressure was in the physiologic range.,ANGIOGRAPHIC DATA: , Left coronary artery:  The left main coronary artery showed insignificant disease.  The left anterior descending showed fairly extensive calcification.  There was 90% stenosis in the proximal to midportion of the vessel.  Insignificant disease in the circumflex.,SUCCESSFUL STENTING: , A wire crossed the lesion.  We first predilated with a balloon, then advanced, deployed and post dilated the stent.  Final angiography showed 0% stenosis, no tears or thrombi, excellent intimal appearance.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure 160/88, temperature 98.6, pulse 83, respirations 30.  He is saturating at 96% on 4 L nonrebreather.,GENERAL:  The patient is a 74 year-old white male who is cooperative with the examination and alert and oriented x3.  The patient cannot speak and communicates through writing.,HEENT:  Very small moles on face.  However, pupils equal, round and regular and reactive to light and accommodation.  Extraocular movements are intact.  Oropharynx is moist.,NECK:  Supple.  Tracheostomy site is clean without blood or discharge.,HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No gallop, murmur or rub.,CHEST:  Respirations congested.  Mild crackles in the left lower quadrant and left lower base.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender and nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.,EXTREMITIES:  No clubbing, cyanosis or edema.,NEUROLOGIC:  Cranial nerves II-XII grossly intact.  No focal deficit.,GENITALIA:  The patient does have a right scrotal swelling, very much larger than the other side, not reproducible and mobile to touch.,CONCLUSIONS,1. Successful stenting of the left anterior descending.  Initially, there was 90% stenosis.  After stenting with a drug-eluting stent, there was 0% residual.,2. Insignificant disease in the other coronaries.,PLAN:,  The patient will be treated with aspirin, Plavix, Integrilin, beta blockers and statins.  I have discussed this with him, and I have answered his questions.
CC:, Intermittent binocular horizontal, vertical, and torsional diplopia.,HX: ,70y/o RHM referred by Neuro-ophthalmology for evaluation of neuromuscular disease. In 7/91, he began experiencing intermittent binocular horizontal, vertical and torsional diplopia which was worse and frequent at the end of the day, and was eliminated when closing one either eye. An MRI Brain scan at that time was unremarkable. He was seen at UIHC Strabismus Clinic in 5/93 for these symptoms. On exam, he was found to have intermittent right hypertropia in primary gaze, and consistent diplopia in downward and rightward gaze. This was felt to possibly represent Grave's disease. Thyroid function studies were unremarkable, but orbital echography suggested Graves orbitopathy. The patient was then seen in the Neuro-ophthalmology clinic on 12/23/92. His exam remained unchanged. He underwent Tensilon testing which was unremarkable. On 1/13/93, he was seen again in Neuro-ophthalmology. His exam remained relatively unchanged and repeat Tensilon testing was unremarkable. He then underwent a partial superior rectus resection, OD, with only mild improvement of his diplopia. During his 8/27/96 Neuro-ophthalmology clinic visit he was noted to have hypertropia OD with left pseudogaze palsy and a right ptosis. The ptosis improved upon administration of Tensilon and he was placed on Mestinon 30mg tid. His diplopia subsequently improved, but did not resolve. The dosage was increased to 60mg tid and his diplopia worsened and the dose decreased back to 30mg tid. At present he denied any fatigue on repetitive movement. He denied dysphagia, SOB, dysarthria, facial weakness, fevers, chills, night sweats, weight loss or muscle atrophy.,MEDS: , Viokase, Probenecid, Mestinon 30mg tid.,PMH:, 1) Gastric ulcer 30 years ago, 2) Cholecystectomy, 3) Pancreatic insufficiency, 4) Gout, 5) Diplopia.,FHX:, Mother died age 89 of "old age." Father died age 89 of stroke. Brother, age 74 with CAD, Sister died age 30 of cancer.,SHX:, Retired insurance salesman and denies history of tobacco or illicit drug us. He has no h/o ETOH abuse and does not drink at present.,EXAM: ,BP 155/104.  HR 92. RR 12.  Temp 34.6C. WT 76.2kg.,MS: Unremarkable. Normal speech with no dysarthria.,CN: Right hypertropia (worse on rightward gaze and less on leftward gaze). Minimal to no ptosis, OD. No ptosis, OS. VFFTC. No complaint of diplopia. The rest of the CN exam was unremarkable.,MOTOR: 5/5 strength throughout with normal muscle bulk and tone.,SENSORY: No deficits appreciated on PP/VIB/LT/PROP/TEMP testing.,Coordination/Station/Gait: Unremarkable.,Reflexes: 2/2 throughout. Plantar responses were flexor on the right and withdrawal on the left.,HEENT and GEN EXAM: Unremarkable.,COURSE:, EMG/NCV, 9/26/96: Repetitive stimulation studies of the median, facial, and spinal accessory nerves showed no evidence of decrement at baseline, and at intervals up to 3 minutes following exercise. The patient had been off Mestinon for 8 hours prior to testing. Chest CT with contrast, 9/26/96, revealed a 4x2.5x4cm centrally calcified soft tissue anterior mediastinal mass adjacent to the aortic arch. This was highly suggestive of a thymoma. There were diffuse emphysematous disease with scarring in the lung bases. A few nodules suggestive of granulomas and few calcified perihilar lymph nodes. He underwent thoracotomy and resection of the mass. Pathologic analysis was consistent with a thymoma, lymphocyte predominant type, with capsular and pleural invasion, and extension to the phrenic nerve resection margin. Acetylcholine Receptor-binding antibody titer 12.8nmol/L (normal<0.7), Acetylcholine receptor blocking antibody <10% (normal), Acetylcholine receptor modulating antibody 42% (normal<19), Striated muscle antibody 1:320 (normal<1:10). Striated muscle antibody titers tend to be elevated in myasthenia gravis associated with thymoma. He was subsequently treated with XRT and continued to complain of fatigue at his 4/18/97 Oncology visit.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Right buccal and canine's base infection from necrotic teeth.  ICD9 CODE:  528.3.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Right buccal and canine's base infection from necrotic teeth.  ICD9 Code:  528.3.,PROCEDURE: , Incision and drainage of multiple facial spaces; CPT Code:  40801.  Surgical removal of the following teeth.  The teeth numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.  CPT code:  41899 and dental code 7210.,SPECIMENS: , Cultures and sensitivities were taken and sent for aerobic and anaerobic to the micro lab.,DRAINS:  ,A 1.5 inch Penrose drain placed in the right buccal and canine space.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:,  40 Ml.,FLUID:  ,700 mL of crystalloid.,COMPLICATIONS:  ,None.,CONDITION:  ,The patient was extubated breathing spontaneously to the PACU in good condition.,INDICATION FOR PROCEDURE:  ,The patient is a 41-year-old that has a recent history of toothache and tooth pain.  She saw her dentist in Sacaton before Thanksgiving who placed her on antibiotics and told her to return to the clinic for multiple teeth extractions.  The patient neglected to return to the dentist until this weekend for IV antibiotics and definitive treatment.  She noticed on Friday that her face was starting to swell up a little bit and it progressively got worse.  The patient was admitted to the hospital on Monday for IV antibiotics.  Oral surgery was consulted today to aid in the management of the increased facial swelling and tooth pain.  The patient was worked up preoperatively by anesthesia and Oromaxillary Facial Surgery.  It was determined that she would benefit from being having multiple teeth removed and drainage of the facial abscess under general anesthesia.  Risks, benefits, and alternatives of treatment were thoroughly discussed with the patient and consent was obtained.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:,  The patient was taken to the operating room and laid on the operating room table on supine fashion.  ASA monitors were attached as stated.  General anesthesia was induced with IV anesthetic and maintained with a nasal endotracheal intubation and inhalation of anesthetics.  The patient was prepped and draped in usual oromaxillary facial surgery fashion.,An 18-gauze needle of 20 mL syringe was used to aspirate the pus out of the right buccal space.  This pus was then cultured and sent to micro lab for cultures and sensitivities.  Approximately 7 mL of 1% lidocaine with 1:1000 epinephrine was injected in the maxillary vestibule and palate.  After waiting appropriate time for local anesthesia to take affect a moist latex sponge was placed in the posterior oropharynx to throat pack throughout the case.  Mouth rinse was then poured into the oral cavity.  The mucosa was scrubbed with a tooth brush and peridex was evacuated with suction.  Using a #15 blade a clavicular incision from tooth #5 back to 1 with tuberosity release was performed.,A full thickness mucoperiosteal flap was developed and approximately 6 mL of pus was instantly drained from the buccal space.  It was noted on exam that the tooth #1 was fractured off to the gum line with gross decay.  Tooth #2, 3, 4, and 5 had pus leaking from the clavicular epithelium and had rampant decay on tooth #2 and 3 and some mobility on teeth #4 and 5.  It was decided that teeth #1 through 5 would be surgically removed to ensure that all potential teeth causing the abscess were removed.  Using a rongeur both buccal bone and the tooth 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 were surgically removed.  The extraction sites were curetted with curettes and the bone was smoothed with the rongeur and the bone file.  Dissection was then carried further up in the canine space and the face was palpated extra orally from the temporalis muscle down to the infraorbital rim and more pus was expressed.  This site was then irrigated with copious amounts of sterile water.  There was still noted to be induration in the buccal mucosa so #15 blade was used anterior to Stensen duct.  A 2 cm incision was made and using a Hemostat blunt dissection in to the buccal mucosa was performed.  A little-to-no pus was received.  Using a half-inch Penrose the drain was placed up on the anterior border of the maxilla and zygoma and sutured in place with 2-0 Ethilon suture.  Remainder of the flap was left open to drain.  Further examination of the floor of mouth was soft.  The lateral pharynx was nonindurated or swollen.  At this point, the throat pack was removed and OG tube was placed and the stomach contents were evacuated.  The procedure was then determined to be over.  The patient was extubated, breathing spontaneously, and transferred to the PACU in excellent condition.
DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:,  The patient was discharged by court as a voluntary drop by prosecution.  This was AMA against hospital advice.,DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:,AXIS I:  Schizoaffective disorder, bipolar type.,AXIS II:  Deferred.,AXIS III:  Hepatitis C.,AXIS IV:  Severe.,AXIS V:  19.,CONDITION OF PATIENT ON DISCHARGE: , The patient remained disorganized.  The patient was suffering from prolactinemia secondary to medications.,DISCHARGE FOLLOWUP:  ,To be arranged per the patient as the patient was discharged by court.,DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: , A 2-week supply of the following was phoned into the patient's pharmacy:  Seroquel 25 mg p.o. nightly.  Zyprexa 5 mg p.o. b.i.d.,MENTAL STATUS AT THE TIME OF DISCHARGE:,  Attitude was cooperative.  Appearance showed fair hygiene and grooming.  Psychomotor behavior showed restlessness.  No EPS or TD was noted.  Affect was restricted.  Mood remained anxious and speech was pressured.  Thoughts remained tangential, and the patient endorsed paranoid delusions.  The patient denied auditory hallucinations.  The patient denied suicidal or homicidal ideation, was oriented to person and place.  Overall, insight into her illness remained impaired.,HISTORY AND HOSPITAL COURSE: , The patient is a 22-year-old female with a history of bipolar affective disorder, was initially admitted for evaluation of increasing mood lability, disorganization, and inappropriate behaviors.  The patient reportedly was asking her father to have sex with her and tried to pull down her mother's pants.  The patient took her clothing off, was noted to be very disorganized sexually, and religiously preoccupied, and endorsed auditory hallucinations of voices telling her to calm herself and others.  The patient has a history of depression versus bipolar disorder, last hospitalized in Pierce County in 2008, but without recent treatment.  The patient on admission interview was noted to be labile and disorganized.  The patient was initiated on Risperdal M-Tab 2 mg p.o. b.i.d. for psychosis and mood lability, and also medically evaluated by Rebecca Richardson, MD.  The patient remained labile and suspicious during her hospital stay.  The patient continued to be sexually preoccupied and had poor insight into her need for treatment.  The patient denied further auditory hallucinations.  The patient was treated with Seroquel for persistent mood lability and psychosis.  The patient was noted to develop prolactinemia with Risperdal and this was changed to Zyprexa prior to discharge.  The patient remained disorganized, but was given a voluntary drop by prosecution against medical advice when she went to court on 01/11/2010.  The patient was discharged to return home to her parents and was referred to Community Mental Health Agencies.  The patient was thus discharged in symptomatic condition.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:, Altered mental status.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:, The patient is a 69-year-old male transferred from an outlying facility with diagnosis of a stroke. History is taken mostly from the emergency room record. The patient is unable to give any history and no family member is present for questioning. When asked why he came to the emergency room, the patient replies that it started about 2 PM yesterday. However, he is unable to tell me exactly what started at 2 PM yesterday. The patient's speech is clear, but he speaks nonsensically using words in combinations that don't make any sense. No other history of present illness is available.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:, Per the emergency room record, significant for atrial fibrillation, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:, Unknown.,FAMILY HISTORY:, Unknown.,SOCIAL HISTORY:, The patient denies smoking and drinking.,MEDICATIONS:, Per the emergency room record, medications are Lotensin 20 mg daily, Toprol 50 mg daily, Plavix 75 mg daily and aspirin 81 mg daily.,ALLERGIES:, UNKNOWN.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:, Unobtainable secondary to the patient's condition.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS: Temperature: 97.9. Pulse: 79. Respiratory rate: 20. Blood pressure: 117/84.,GENERAL: Well-developed, well-nourished male in no acute distress.,HEENT: Eyes: Pupils are equal, round and reactive. There is no scleral icterus. Ears, nose and throat: His oropharynx is moist. His hearing is normal.,NECK: No JVD. No thyromegaly.,CARDIOVASCULAR: Irregular rhythm. No lower extremity edema.,RESPIRATORY: Clear to auscultation bilaterally with normal effort.,ABDOMEN: Nontender. Nondistended. Bowel sounds are positive.,MUSCULOSKELETAL: There is no clubbing of the digits. The patient's strength is 5/5 throughout.,NEUROLOGICAL: Babinski's are downgoing bilaterally. Deep tendon reflexes are 2+ throughout.,LABORATORY DATA:, By report, head CT from the outlying facility was negative. An EKG showed atrial fibrillation with a rate of 75. There is no indication of any acute cardiac ischemia. A chest x-ray shows no acute pulmonary process, but does show cardiomegaly.,Labs are as follows: White count 9.4, hemoglobin 17.2, hematocrit 52.5, platelet count 219. PTT 24, PT 13, INR 0.96. Sodium 135, potassium 3.6, chloride 99, bicarb 27, BUN 13, creatinine 1.4, glucose 161, calcium 9, magnesium 1.9, total protein 7, albumin 3.7, AST 22, ALT 41, alkaline phosphatase 85, total bilirubin 0.7, total cholesterol 193. Cardiac isoenzymes are negative times one with a troponin of 0.09.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1. Probable stroke. The patient has an expressive aphasia. He does not have dysarthria, however. Also, his strength is not affected. I suspect that the patient has had strokes or TIAs in the past because he was taking aspirin and Plavix at home. Head CT is reportedly negative. I will ask our radiologist to re-read the head CT. I will also order MRI and MRA, carotid Doppler ultrasound and echocardiogram in addition to a fasting lipid profile. I will consult neurology to evaluate and continue his aspirin and Plavix.,2. Atrial fibrillation. The patient's rate is controlled currently. I will continue him on his amiodarone 200 mg twice daily and consult CHI to evaluate him.,3. Hypertension. I will continue his home medications and add clonidine as needed.,4. Hyperlipidemia. The patient takes no medications for this currently. I will check a fasting lipid profile.,5. Hyperglycemia. It is unknown whether the patient has a history of diabetes. His glucose is currently 171. I will start him on sliding scale insulin for now and monitor closely.,6. Renal insufficiency. It is also unknown whether the patient has a history of this and what his baseline creatinine might be. Currently he has only mild renal insufficiency. This does not appear to be prerenal. Will monitor for now.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Bilateral upper lobe cavitary lung masses.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Bilateral upper lobe cavitary lung masses.,2.  Final pending pathology.,3.  Airway changes including narrowing of upper lobe segmental bronchi, apical and posterior on the right, and anterior on the left.  There are also changes of inflammation throughout.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Diagnostic fiberoptic bronchoscopy with biopsies and bronchoalveolar lavage.,ANESTHESIA: , Conscious sedation was with Demerol 150 mg and Versed 4 mg IV.,OPERATIVE REPORT: , The patient is residing in the endoscopy suite.  After appropriate anesthesia and sedation, the bronchoscope was advanced transorally due to the patient's recent history of epistaxis.  Topical lidocaine was utilized for anesthesia.  Epiglottis and vocal cords demonstrated some mild asymmetry of the true cords with right true and false vocal cord appearing slightly more prominent.  This may be normal anatomic variant.  The scope was advanced into the trachea.  The main carina was sharp in appearance.  Right upper, middle, and lower segmental bronchi as well as left upper lobe and lower lobe segmental bronchi were serially visualized.  Immediately noted were some abnormalities including circumferential narrowing and probable edema involving the posterior and apical segmental bronchi on the right and to a lesser degree the anterior segmental bronchus on the left.  No specific intrinsic masses were noted.  Under direct visualization, the scope was utilized to lavage the posterior segmental bronchus in the right upper lobe.  Also cytologic brushings and protected bacteriologic brushing specimens were obtained.  Three biopsies were attempted within the cavitary lesion in the posterior segment of the right upper lobe.  During lavage, some caseous appearing debris appeared intermittently.  The specimens were collected and sent to the lab.  Procedure was terminated with hemostasis having been verified.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.,Throughout the procedure, the patient's vital signs and oximetry were monitored and remained within satisfactory limits.,The patient will be returned to her room with orders as per usual.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,1.  Right buccal space abscess/cellulitis.,2.  Nonrestorable caries teeth #1, #29, and #32.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,1.  Right buccal space abscess/cellulitis.,2.  Nonrestorable caries teeth #1, #29, and #32.,PROCEDURE,1.  Incision and drainage of right buccal space abscess.,2.  Extraction of teeth #1, #29, and #32.,ANESTHESIA,GETA,EBL,20 mL.,IV FLUIDS,900 mL.,URINE OUTPUT,Not measured.,COMPLICATIONS,None.,SPECIMENS,1.  Aerobic culture was sent from the right buccal space abscess/cellulitis.,2.  Anaerobic culture from the same space was also obtained.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL,The patient was identified in the appropriate holding area and transported to #13.  The patient was intubated by anesthesia orotracheally using a #7 ET tube.  The patient was induced in effective sleep using a propofol and gas inhalation anesthetics.  Following intubation, the patient's mouth was cleaned with chlorhexidine and a toothbrush following placement of a throat pack.  At that point, approximately 5 mL of 2% lidocaine with 1:20,000 epinephrine was injected for a right inferior alveolar block, as well as local infiltration in the right long buccal nerve area as well as the right cheek area.  Local infiltration also was done near the tooth #32.  At this point, a periosteal elevator was used to loosen up the gingival tissue of the teeth #1, #29, and #32; and all 3 teeth were extracted using simple extraction, using elevators and forceps.  In addition, the previous Penrose drain was removed by removing the suture, and the incision that was used for I&D on the previous day was extended laterally.  A hemostat was used to puncture through to the right buccal space.  Approximately, 2.5 to 3 mL of purulence was drained, and that was used for Gram stain and culture, as mentioned above.  Following copious irrigation of the area, following the extraction and following the incision and drainage, 2 quarter-inch Penrose drains were placed in the anterior as well as the posterior section of the incision into the buccal space.  At this point copious irrigation was done again, the throat pack was removed, and the procedure was ended.  Note that the patient was extubated without incident.  Dr. B was present for all critical aspects of patient care.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Dentigerous cyst, left mandible associated with full bone impacted wisdom tooth #17.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Dentigerous cyst, left mandible associated with full bone impacted wisdom tooth #17.,PROCEDURE:,  Removal of benign cyst and extraction of full bone impacted tooth #17.,ANESTHESIA:  ,General anesthesia with nasal endotracheal intubation.,SPECIMEN: , Cyst and section tooth #17.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:,  10 mL.,FLUIDS:,  1200 of Lactated Ringer's.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,CONDITION: , The patient was extubated and transported to the PACU in good condition.  Breathing spontaneously.,INDICATION FOR PROCEDURE:  ,The patient is a 38-year-old Caucasian male who was referred to clinic to evaluate a cyst in his left mandible.  Preoperatively, a biopsy of the cyst was obtained and it was noted to be a benign dentigerous cyst.,After evaluation of the location of the cyst and the impacted wisdom tooth approximately the inferior border of the mandible, it was determined that the patient would benefit from removal of the cyst and removal of tooth #17 under general anesthesia in the operating room.  Risks, benefits, and alternatives of treatment were thoroughly discussed with the patient and consent was obtained.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:,  The patient was taken to the operating room #1 at Hospital and laid in the supine fashion on the operating room table.  As stated, general anesthesia was induced with IV anesthetics and maintained with nasal endotracheal intubation and inhalation anesthetics.  The patient was prepped and draped in usual oro-maxillofacial surgery fashion.,Approximately, #6 mL of 2% lidocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine was injected in the usual nerve block fashion.  After waiting appropriate time for local anesthesia to take effect, a moistened Ray-Tec sponge was placed in the posterior pharynx.  Peridex mouth rinse was used to prep the oral cavity.  This was removed with suction.,Using a #15 blade a sagittal split osteotomy incision was made along the left ramus.  A full-thickness mucoperiosteal flap was elevated and the crest of the bone was identified where the crown had super-erupted since the biopsy 6 weeks earlier.  Using a Hall drill, a buccal osteotomy was developed, the tooth was sectioned in half, fractured with an elevator and delivered in two pieces.  Using a double-ended curette, the remainder of the cystic lining was removed from the left mandible and sent to pathology with the tooth for review.,The area was irrigated with copious amounts of sterile water and closed with 3-0 chromic gut suture.  The throat pack was removed.  The procedure was then determined to be over, and the patient was extubated, breathing spontaneously, and transported to the PACU in good condition.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,This is a 23-year-old married man who had an onset of aplastic anemia in December, underwent a bone marrow transplant in the end of March, has developed very severe graft-versus-host reaction.  Psychiatric consultation has been requested as the patient has been noncompliant with treatment, leave the unit, does not return when requested, and it was unclear as to whether this is secondary to confusion or willful behavior.,The patient gives a significant history of behavioral problems from late adolescence until the onset of illness, states he had lot of trouble with law, he was convicted of assault, he was also arrested with small amount of cannabis, states he served one year incarcerated in ABCD that was about two years ago.  Gives an ongoing history of substance abuse until one year ago when he went into a drug rehabilitation program, he was discharged from that on 05/28/2006 and states he has been clean and sober since then.  Prior to going to rehabilitation, he was using intravenous heroin couple of times a week since age 17, which would have been over a period of about five years, reports heavy use of cannabis, smoking pot up to five times a day if he could.  He would drink up to half of a fifth of rum on a daily basis when available.,The patient is currently on Lexapro 10 mg in the morning and diazepam 10 mg at bedtime.  He complained of some depressive and some anxiety symptoms, but these do not appear to be out of proportion to his medical issues and, for this individual, the frustrations of his treatments.  He would have a limited support system here in Colorado.  He married in January and states that the marriage is not going particularly well, being young, sick, and hospitalized, has not helped his relationship with his new wife who apparently is expecting a child in July.  I would recommend some couples counseling as a part of their treatment here.,The patient was fairly drowsy during the interview and full past and developmental history was not obtained.  The patient's comment is that he grew up all over, that his parents had separated, that he lived with his mother, that he dropped out of school in eleventh grade, at that time was living in XYZ area because he did not like school.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  ,GENERAL: , This is a cooperative man, speech is soft and difficult to understand.  There is no thought disorder and no hallucination.  He denies being suicidal, but does express at times feelings about giving up on his treatments and primarily complaints about feeling that he is treated like a child and confined in the hospital.,VITAL SIGNS: , Temperature 97.2, pulse 117, respirations 16, blood pressure 127/74, oxygen saturation 97%, and weight is 154 pounds.,PSYCHIATRY:,  There is no thought disorder, no paranoia, no delusions, and no psychotic symptoms.  Activities of daily living (ADLs) appear intact.  On formal testing, he is oriented to place.  He can give a reasonable recitation of his medical history.  He is oriented to the year, knows it is the 15th, but gave the month as June instead of May.  He can memorize four items, repeats three out of four at five minutes, gives the fourth through the category, which places short-term memory in normal limits.  He can do serial three subtractions accurately, can name objects appropriately.,LABORATORY DATA:,  Sodium of 135, BUN of 24, and glucose 119.  GGT of 355, ALT of 97, LDH of 703, and alk phos of 144.  FK506 is 28.8, which is elevated tacrolimus level.  Hematocrit 29% and white count is 7000.,DIAGNOSES:  ,AXIS I:,  Depressive disorder secondary to the underlying medical condition of graft-versus-host reaction.,AXIS II: , Personality disorder, not otherwise specified (NOS).,AXIS III: , History of polysubstance abuse, in remission.,RECOMMENDATIONS:  ,1.  This patient appears to retain the ability to make decisions on his own behalf.  I think he is mentally competent.  Unfortunately, his impulsive low frustration personality dynamics do not fit well with the demands and requirements for treatment of this chronic illness.  If the patient refuses treatment, he understands that the consequences of this would likely be hastened mortality and he does state that he does not want to die.,2.  The patient does complain of depressed mood, also of anxiety.  We did discuss medications.  He appeared somewhat sedated at the time of my interview.  I would recommend that we try Seroquel 25 mg twice daily on an as-needed basis to see if this diminishes anxiety.  I will have Dr. X followup with him.,Please feel free to contact me at digital pager if additional information is needed.,My overall recommendation would be that the patient be on some random urine drug screening, that he use cell phone if he goes off the unit, to be called back up when treatments are scheduled, and hopefully he will be agreeable to complying with this.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Cataract, right eye.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Cataract, right eye.,PROCEDURE:  ,Phacoemulsification of cataract with posterior chamber intraocular lens, right eye.,ANESTHESIA:  ,Topical.,COMPLICATIONS:  ,None.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:  ,The patient was identified.  The operative eye was treated with tetracaine 1% topically in the preoperative holding area.  The patient was taken to the operating room and prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion for ophthalmic surgery.,Attention was turned to the left/right eye.  The lashes were tapped using Steri-Strips to prevent blinking.  A lid speculum was placed to prevent lid closure.  Anesthesia was verified.  Then, a 3.5-mm groove was created with a diamond blade temporarily.  This was beveled with a crescent blade, and the anterior chamber was entered with a 3.2-mm keratome in the iris plane.  A 1% nonpreserved lidocaine was injected intracamerally and followed with Viscoat.  A paracentesis was made.  A round capsulorrhexis was performed.  The anterior capsular flap was removed.  Hydrodelineation and dissection were followed by phacoemulsification of the cataract using a chop technique.  The irrigating-aspirating machine was used to clear residual cortex.  The Provisc was instilled.  An SN60WS diopter intraocular lens was inserted into the capsular bag, and the position was verified.  The viscoelastic was removed.  Intraocular lens remained well centered.  The incision was hydrated, and the anterior chamber pressure was checked with tactile pressure and found to be normal.  The anterior chamber remained deep, and there was no wound leak.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  The eye was dressed with Maxitrol ointment.  A tight patch and Fox shield were placed.  The patient returned to the recovery room in excellent condition with stable vital signs and no eye pain.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Term pregnancy.,2.  Desires permanent sterilization.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Term pregnancy.,2.  Desires permanent sterilization.,PROCEDURE:,1.  Repeat low-transverse cesarean section.,2.  Bilateral tubal ligation.,3.  Extensive anterior abdominal wall/uterine/bladder adhesiolysis.,ANESTHESIA:,  Spinal/epidural with good effect.,FINDINGS:  ,Delivered vigorous male infant from cephalic presentation.  Apgars 9/9.  Birth weight 6 pounds 14 ounces.  Infant suctioned with a bulb upon delivery of the head and body.  Cord clamped and cut and infant passed to pediatric team present.  Complete placenta manually extracted intact with three vessel cord.  Extensive anterior abdominal wall adhesions with the anterior abdominal wall completely adhered to the anterior uterus throughout its entire length of the incision.  In addition, the bladder was involved in adhesion mass complex.  A window was developed surgically at the apical aspect of the incision enabling finger to pass to get behind the dense anterior abdominal wall adhesions.  These adhesions were surgically transected using Bovie cautery technique freeing up the anterior uterine attachment from the anterior abdominal wall.  Upon initial entry through the fibrous layer of the anterior abdominal wall _______ into the serosal and slightly muscular part of the anterior uterus due to the dense adhesion attachment that had occurred from previous surgeries.  Bilateral tubal ligation performed without difficulty via Parkland technique.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , 500 mL.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,URINE OUTPUT:  ,Per anesthesia records.  Urine cleared postoperatively.,IV FLUIDS:  ,Per anesthesia records.,The patient tolerated the procedure well and was taken to the recovery room in stable condition with stable vital signs.,OPERATIVE TECHNIQUE: , The patient was placed in a supine position after spinal/epidural anesthesia.  She was prepped and draped in the usual manner for repeat cesarean section.  A sharp knife was used to make a Pfannenstiel skin incision at the site of the previous scar.  This was carried through the subcutaneous tissue into the dense fibromuscular and fascial layer with a sharp knife.  This incision was extended laterally with Mayo scissors.  Dense fibromuscular layer was encountered from the patient's previous surgeries.  Upon entry, incision was entered into the serosal and partial muscular layer of the anterior uterus and there was no free area to enter into the peritoneal cavity due to dense fibromuscular adhesions of the entire uterus to the anterior abdominal wall at the length of the incision.  Fascia was previously separated superiorly and inferiorly from the muscular layer.  A surgical window was created at the apical aspect of the incision in the direction of the uterine fundus.  Finger was able to be passed and placed behind the dense adhesions between the uterus through anterior abdominal wall.  This adhesion complex was transacted via Bovie cautery its entire length circumferentially freeing the uterus from its attachment to anterior abdominal wall.  Inferiorly, difficulty was encountered with adhesion separation involving the bladder additionally to the uterus and the anterior abdominal wall.  These adhesions likewise were surgically transacted via sharp, blunt, and electrocautery dissection.  This was successfully done without anterior entry into the bladder.  Smooth pickups and Metzenbaum scissors were then used to do sharp dissection to separated the bladder from its attachment to the lower uterine segment enabling the vesicouterine peritoneal reflection for incision of the uterus.  The uterus was then incised using a sharp knife and low transverse incision.  This was extended with bandage scissors.  The infant was delivered easily from a cephalic presentation.  Bulb suction was done following delivery of the head and body.  The cord clamped and cut and the infant passed to pediatric team present.  Cord segment and cord blood was obtained.  Complete placenta manually extracted intact with three vessel cord.  Vigorous male infant, Apgars 9/9, weight 6 pounds 14 ounces.  Complete placenta with three vessels retrieved.  Uterus was exteriorized from the abdominal cavity.  Wet lap applied to the fundus and dry lap used to remove the remaining membranous tissue from the lining.  Pennington clamps placed at the uterine incision angles and the inferior incision lip.  A #1 chromic suture closed the uterus in running continuous interlocking closure.  Good hemostasis upon completion of the closure.  Laparotomy pads placed in the posterior cul-de-sac to remove any blood or clots.  The uterus was returned to the abdominal cavity, after using #1 chromic suture to close the anterior uterine incision, that was partial thickness through the serosal end of the muscular layer at midline adhesion.  This was closed with chromic suture in a running continuous interlocking closure with good hemostasis.  Attention was then focused on the bilateral tubal ligation.  Babcock clamp placed in the mid fallopian tube and elevated.  Cautery was used to make a window in the avascular segment of the mesosalpinx.  Proximal and distal #1 chromic suture ligation with mid fallopian tube transection performed.  The ligated proximal and distal stumps were then cauterized with Bovie cautery.  This tubal ligation procedure was done in a bilateral fashion.  Upon completion of tubal ligation, uterus was returned to the abdominal cavity.  Left and right gutters examined and found to be clean and dry.  Evaluation of the low uterine segment incision revealed continued hemostasis.  Oozing was encountered in the inferior bladder of dissection and 2-0 chromic suture in running continuous fashion, partial thickness of the bladder to control the oozing at this site was successfully done.  Interceed was then placed on the low uterine incision and the low anterior uterine aspect.  The midline rectus including peritoneum was re-approximated with simple interrupted chromic sutures.  Irrigation of the muscular layer with good hemostasis noted.  The fascia was closed with #1 Vicryl in a running continuous closure.  Subcutaneous tissue was irrigated, additional hemostasis with Bovie cautery.  The skin was closed with staples.
PROCEDURE: , Esophagogastroduodenoscopy with gastric biopsies.,INDICATION:,  Abdominal pain.,FINDINGS:,  Antral erythema; 2 cm polypoid pyloric channel tissue, questionable inflammatory polyp which was biopsied; duodenal erythema and erosion.,MEDICATIONS: , Fentanyl 200 mcg and versed 6 mg.,SCOPE: , GIF-Q180.,PROCEDURE DETAIL: , Following the preprocedure patient assessment the procedure, goals, risks including bleeding, perforation and side effects of medications and alternatives were reviewed.  Questions were answered.  Pause preprocedure was performed.,Following titrated intravenous sedation the flexible video endoscope was introduced into the esophagus and advanced to the second portion of the duodenum without difficulty.  The esophagus appeared to have normal motility and mucosa.  Regular Z line was located at 44 cm from incisors.  No erosion or ulceration.  No esophagitis.,Upon entering the stomach gastric mucosa was examined in detail including retroflexed views of cardia and fundus.  There was pyloric channel and antral erythema, but no visible erosion or ulceration.  There was a 2 cm polypoid pyloric channel tissue which was suspicious for inflammatory polyp.  This was biopsied and was placed separately in bottle #2.  Random gastric biopsies from antrum, incisura and body were obtained and placed in separate jar, bottle #1.  No active ulceration was found.,Upon entering the duodenal bulb there was extensive erythema and mild erosions, less than 3 mm in length, in first portion of duodenum, duodenal bulb and junction of first and second part of the duodenum.  Postbulbar duodenum looked normal.,The patient was assessed upon completion of the procedure.  Okay to discharge once criteria met.,Follow up with primary care physician.,I met with patient afterward and discussed with him avoiding any nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication.  Await biopsy results.
COMPARISON STUDIES:, None.,MEDICATION: ,  Lopressor 5 mg IV.,HEART RATE AFTER MEDICATION:, 64bpm,EXAM:,TECHNIQUE: Tomographic images were obtained of the heart and chest with a 64 detector row scanner using slice thicknesses of less than 1 mm. 80ccâ€™s of Isovue 370 was injected in the right arm.,TECHNICAL QUALITY:,Examination is limited secondary to extensive artifact from defibrillator wires.,There is good demonstration of the coronary arteries and there is good bolus timing.,FINDINGS:,LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY:,The left main coronary artery is a moderate-sized vessel with a normal ostium. There is no calcific or non-calcific plaque. The vessel bifurcates into a left anterior descending artery and a left circumflex artery.,LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING ARTERY:,The left anterior descending artery is a moderate-sized vessel, with a small first diagonal branch and a large second diagonal branch. The vessel continues as a small vessel, tapering at the apex of the left ventricle. There is calcific plaque within the mid vessel, with dense calcific plaque at the bifurcation of the second diagonal branch. This limits evaluation of the vessel lumen, and although a flow-limiting lesion cannot be excluded, there is no evidence of a high-grade stenosis. There is ostial calcification within the second diagonal branch as well. The LAD distal to the second diagonal branch is small relative to the more proximal vessel, and this is worrisome for a proximal flow-limiting lesion.,In addition, there is marked tapering of the D2 branch distal to the proximal and ostial calcific plaque. This is worrisome for either occlusion or a high-grade stenosis. There is only minimal contrast that is identified in the distal vessel.,LEFT CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY:,The left circumflex artery is a moderate-sized vessel with a patent ostium. There is calcific plaque within the proximal vessel. There is dense calcific plaque at the bifurcation of the OM1, and the AV groove branch. The AV groove branch tapers as a small vessel at the base of the heart. The dense calcific plaque within the bifurcation of the OM1 and the AV groove branch limits evaluation of the vessel lumen. There is no demonstrated high-grade stenosis, but a flow-limiting lesion cannot be excluded here.,RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY:,The right coronary artery is a moderate-sized vessel with a patent ostium. There is proximal mixed calcific and non-calcific plaque, but there is no flow-limiting lesion. The vessel continues as a moderate-sized vessel to the crux of the heart, supplying a small posterior descending artery and moderate to large posterolateral ventricular branches.,There is scattered calcific plaque within the mid vessel and there is also calcific plaque within the distal vessel at the origin of the posterior descending artery. There is no flow-limited lesion demonstrated.,The right coronary artery is dominant.,NONCORONARY CARDIAC STRUCTURE:,CARDIAC CHAMBERS:, There is diffuse myocardial thinning within the left ventricle, particularly within the apex where there is subendocardial calcification, consistent with chronic infarction. There is ventricular enlargement. There is no demonstrated aneurysm or pseudoaneurysm.,CARDIAC VALVES: ,There is calcification within the left aortic valve cusp. The aortic valve is tri-leaflet. Normal mitral valve.,PERICARDIUM:, Normal.,GREAT VESSELS: ,There are atherosclerotic changes within the aorta.,VISUALIZED LUNG PARENCHYMA, MEDIASTINUM AND CHEST WALL: ,Normal.,IMPRESSION:,Limited examination secondary to extensive artifact from the pacemaker wires.,There is extensive calcific plaque within the left anterior descending artery as well as within the proximal second diagonal branch. There is marked tapering of the LAD distal to the bifurcation of the D1 and this is worrisome for a flow-limiting lesion, but there is no evidence of occlusion.,There is marked tapering of the D1 branch distal to the calcific plaque and occlusion cannot be excluded.,There is dense calcific plaque within the left circumflex artery, and although a flow-limiting lesion cannot be excluded here, there is no evidence of an occlusion or high-grade stenosis.,There is mixed soft and calcific plaque within the proximal RCA, but there is no flow limiting lesion demonstrated.,There is diffuse thinning of the left ventricular wall, most focal at the apex where there is also dense calcification, consistent with chronic infarction. There is no demonstrated aneurysm or pseudoaneurysm.
HISTORY:  ,The patient is a 5-1/2-year-old with Down syndrome, complex heart disease consisting of atrioventricular septal defect and tetralogy of Fallot with pulmonary atresia, discontinuous pulmonary arteries and bilateral superior vena cava with a left cava draining to the coronary sinus and a right aortic arch.  As an infant, he was initially palliated with the right and modified Blalock-Taussig shunt in October of 2002 and underwent atrioventricular septal defect and repair of pulmonary artery unifocalization and homograft placement between the right ventricle and unifocalized pulmonary arteries.  He developed a significant branch of pulmonary artery stenosis for which on 07/20/2004, he underwent a bilateral balloon pulmonary arterioplasty and stent implantation at the San Diego at Children's Hospital.  This was followed on 09/13/2007 with replacement of pulmonary valve utilizing a 16-mm Contegra valve.  A recent echocardiogram demonstrated a significant branch of pulmonary artery stenosis with the predicted gradient of 41 to 55 mmHg and a well-functioning Contegra valve.  The lung perfusion scan from 11/14/2007 demonstrated 47% flow to the left lung and 53% flow to the right lung.  The patient underwent a repeat catheterization in consideration for further balloon angioplasty of the branch pulmonary arteries.,PROCEDURE: , After sedation, the patient was placed under general endotracheal anesthesia breathing 50% oxygen throughout the case.  The patient was prepped and draped.  Cardiac catheterization was performed as outlined in the attached continuation sheets.  Vascular entry was by percutaneous technique, and the patient was heparinized.  Monitoring during the procedure included continuous surface ECG, continuous pulse oximetry, and cycled cuff blood pressures, in addition to intravascular pressures,Using a 7-French sheath, 6-French wedge catheter was inserted into the right femoral vein and advanced through the right heart structures out to the branch pulmonary arteries.  This catheter was exchanged over wire.  A 5-French marker pigtail catheter was directed into the main pulmonary artery.  A second site of venous access was achieved in and the left femoral vein with the placement of 5-French sheath.,Using a 4-French sheath, a 4-French pigtail catheter was inserted in the right femoral artery and advanced retrograde to the descending aorta, ascending aorta and left ventricle.  Angiogram with injection in the main pulmonary artery demonstrated stable stent configuration of the proximal branch pulmonary arteries with intimal ingrowth in the region of the proximal stents.  The distal right pulmonary measured approximately 10 mm in diameter with a mid stent section measuring 9.4 mm and the proximal stent near the origin of the right pulmonary artery of 5.80 mm.  The distal left pulmonary measured approximately 10 mm in diameter with a mid stent measuring 10.3 mm and the proximal stent near the origin of the left pulmonary artery is 6.8 mm diameter.  The left femoral venous sheath was exchanged over wire for a 7-French sheath.  Guidewires were then advanced through the respective venous sheath into the branch pulmonary arteries and simultaneous balloon pulmonary arterioplasty was performed using the two Z-Med 12 x 4 cm balloon catheter was advanced into the branch of pulmonary arteries and inflated maximally to 9 hemispheres of pressure on 5 occasions near complete disappearance of proximal waist.  The balloon catheter was then exchanged for a 5-French Mistique catheter for pressure pull-back and measurement in the angiogram.  The catheter's wires were then removed and final hemodynamic assessment was made with the wedge catheter.,Flows were calculated by the Fick technique using a measured assumed oxygen consumption and contents derived from Radiometer Hemoximeter saturations and hemoglobin capacity.,Cineangiograms were obtained with angiograph injection in the main pulmonary artery.,After angiography, two normal-appearing renal collecting systems were visualized.  The catheters and sheaths were removed and topical pressure applied for hemostasis.  The patient was returned to the recovery room in satisfactory condition.  There were no complications.,DISCUSSION:  ,Oxygen consumption was assumed to be in normal.  Mixed venous saturation that was not normal with no evidence of intracardiac shunt.  Left side of the heart was mildly desaturated following a part to parenchymal lung disease with the partial pressure of oxygen of only 82 mmHg.  Aphasic right atrial pressures were normal with an A-wave similar to the normal right ventricular end-diastolic pressure.  Left ventricular systolic pressure was moderately elevated at 70% of systemic level and there was no obstruction into the proximal main pulmonary artery.  There was a 20 mmHg of peak systolic gradient across the branch pulmonary artery stents to the distal artery.  Right and left pulmonary artery capillary wedge pressures were normal with an A-wave similar to the mildly elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressure of 13 mmHg.  Left ventricular systolic pressure was systemic.  No outflow constriction to the ascending aorta.  Phasic ascending and descending pressures were similar and normal.  The calculated systemic and pulmonary flows were equal and normal.  Vascular resistances were normal.  Angiogram with injection in the main pulmonary artery showed catheter induced pulmonary insufficiency, well functioning Contegra valve with no appreciable calcification.  The proximal narrowing of the distal main pulmonary artery was appreciated.  Neointimal ingrowth within the proximal stents were appreciated.  There is good distal growth of the pulmonary arteries.  Arborization appeared normal.  Levophase contrast returned to the heart appeared normal with a well-functioning left ventricle and the right aortic arch.  Following the branch pulmonary artery angioplasty that was increased in the mixed venous saturation, as well as an increase in the systemic arterial saturation.  Right ventricular systolic pressure felt slightly to 40 mmHg with an increase in systemic arterial pressure with a systolic pressure ratio of 54%.  The main pulmonary pressures remained similar.  There was 10 mmHg systolic gradient into the branch of pulmonary arteries.  There is an increase in distal branch of pulmonary arteries with the mean pressure increased from 16 mmHg to 21 mmHg.  Final angiogram with injection in the main pulmonary artery showed a competent Contegra valve.  A brisk flow through the proximal branch stents with the improved caliber of the branch pulmonary artery lumens.  There was no evidence of intimal disruption.,DIAGNOSES: ,1.  Atrioventricular septal defect.,2.  Tetralogy of Fallot with the pulmonary atresia.,3.  Bilateral superior vena cava.  The left cava draining to the coronary sinus.,4.  The right aortic arch.,5.  Discontinuous pulmonary arteries.,6.  Down syndrome.,PRIOR SURGERIES AND INTERVENTIONS:  ,1.  Right modified Blalock-Taussig shunt.,2.  Repair of tetralogy of Fallot with external conduit.,3.  The atrioventricular septal defect repair.,4.  Unifocalization of branch pulmonary arteries.,5.  Bilateral balloon pulmonary angioplasty and stent implantation.,6.  Pulmonary valve replacement with 16-mm Contegra valve.,CURRENT DIAGNOSES:  ,1.  Mild-to-moderate proximal branch pulmonary stenosis.,2.  Well-functioning Contegra valve and current intervention.  A balloon dilation of the right pulmonary artery.,3.  Balloon dilation of left pulmonary artery.,MANAGEMENT: , The case will be discussed at Combined Cardiology and Cardiothoracic Surgery Case Conference and conservative outpatient management will be pursued.  Further cardiologic care be directed by Dr. X.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Urinary retention.,2.  Benign prostate hypertrophy.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Urinary retention.,2.  Benign prostate hypertrophy.,PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,1.  Cystourethroscopy.,2.  Transurethral resection of prostate (TURP).,ANESTHESIA:,  Spinal.,RESECTION TIME:,  Less than one hour.,INDICATION FOR PROCEDURE:  ,This is a 62-year-old male with a history of urinary retention and progressive obstructive voiding symptoms and enlarged prostate 60 g on ultrasound, office cystoscopy confirmed this.,PROCEDURE:  PROCEDURE: , Informed written consent was obtained.  The patient was taken to the operative suite, administered spinal anesthetic and placed in dorsal lithotomy position.  She was sterilely prepped and draped in normal fashion.  A #27-French resectoscope was inserted utilizing the visual obturator blanching the bladder.  The bladder was visualized in all quadrants, no bladder tumors or stones were noted.  Ureteral orifices were visualized and did appear to be near the enlarged median lobe.  Prostate showed trilobar prostatic enlargement.  There were some cellules and tuberculations noted.  The visual obturator was removed.  The resectoscope was then inserted utilizing the #26 French resectoscope loop.  Resection was performed initiating at the bladder neck and at the median lobe.,This was taken down to the circular capsular fibers.  Attention was then turned to the left lateral lobe and this was resected from 12 o'clock to 3 o'clock down to the capsular fibers maintaining hemostasis along the way and taking care not to resect beyond the level of the verumontanum.  Ureteral orifices were kept out of harm's way throughout the case.  Resection was then performed from the 3 o'clock position to the 6 o'clock position in similar fashion.  Attention was then turned to the right lateral lobe and this was resected again in a similar fashion maintaining hemostasis along the way.  The resectoscope was then moved to the level of the proximal external sphincter and trimming of the apex was performed.  Open prostatic fossa was noted.  All chips were evacuated via Ellik evacuator and #24 French three-way Foley catheter was inserted and irrigated.  Clear return was noted.  The patient was then hooked up to better irrigation.  The patient was cleaned, reversed for anesthetic, and transferred to recovery room in stable condition.,PLAN:  ,We will admit with antibiotics, pain control, and bladder irrigation possible void trial in the morning.
PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Laparoscopic cholecystectomy.,PROCEDURE:  ,After informed consent was obtained, the patient was brought to the operating room and placed supine on the operating room table.  General endotracheal anesthesia was induced without incident.  The patient was prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner.,A 2 cm infraumbilical midline incision was made.  The fascia was then cleared of subcutaneous tissue using a tonsil clamp.  A 1-2 cm incision was then made in the fascia, gaining entry into the abdominal cavity without incident.  Two sutures of 0 Vicryl were then placed superiorly and inferiorly in the fascia, and then tied to the special 12 mm Hasson trocar fitted with a funnel-shaped adapter in order to occlude the fascial opening.  Pneumoperitoneum was then established using carbon dioxide insufflation to a steady pressure of 16 mmHg.,The remaining trocars were then placed into the abdomen under direct vision of the 30 degree laparoscope taking care to make the incisions along Langer's lines, spreading the subcutaneous tissues with a tonsil clamp, and confirming the entry site by depressing the abdominal wall prior to insertion of the trocar.  A total of 3 other trocars were placed.  The first was a 10/11 mm trocar in the upper midline position.  The second was a 5 mm trocar placed in the anterior iliac spine.  The third was a 5 mm trocar placed to bisect the distance between the second and upper midline trocars.  All of the trocars were placed without difficulty.,The patient was then placed in reverse Trendelenburg position and was rotated slightly to the left.  The gallbladder was then grasped through the second and third trocars and retracted cephalad toward the right shoulder.  A laparoscopic dissector was then placed through the upper midline cannula, fitted with a reducer, and the structures within the triangle of Calot were meticulously dissected free.,A laparoscopic clip applier was introduced through the upper midline cannula and used to doubly ligate the cystic duct proximally and distally.  The duct was divided between the clips.  The clips were carefully placed to avoid occluding the juncture with the common bile duct.  The cystic artery was found medially and slightly posterior to the cystic duct.  It was carefully dissected free from its surrounding tissues.  A laparoscopic clip applier was introduced through the upper midline cannula and used to doubly ligate the cystic artery proximally and distally.  The artery was divided between the clips.  The 2 midline port sites were injected with 5% Marcaine.,After the complete detachment of the gallbladder from the liver, the video laparoscope was removed and placed through the upper 10/11 mm cannula.  The neck of the gallbladder was grasped with a large penetrating forceps placed through the umbilical 12 mm Hasson cannula.  As the gallbladder was pulled through the umbilical fascial defect, the entire sheath and forceps were removed from the abdomen.  The neck of the gallbladder was removed from the abdomen.  Following gallbladder removal, the remaining carbon dioxide was expelled from the abdomen.,Both midline fascial defects were then approximated using 0 Vicryl suture.  All skin incisions were approximated with 4-0 Vicryl in a subcuticular fashion.  The skin was prepped with benzoin, and Steri-Strips were applied.  Dressings were applied.  All surgical counts were reported as correct.,Having tolerated the procedure well, the patient was subsequently extubated and taken to the recovery room in good and stable condition.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: , Septal irritation.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 39-year-old African-American female status post repair of septal deviation but unfortunately, ultimately ended with a large septal perforation.  The patient has been using saline nasal wash 2-3 times daily, however, she states that she still has discomfort in her nose with a "stretching" like pressure.  She says her nose is frequently dry and she occasionally has nosebleeds due to the dry nature of her nose.  She has no other complaints at this time.,PHYSICAL EXAM:,GENERAL:  This is a pleasant African-American female resting in the examination room chair in no apparent distress.,ENT:  External auditory canals are clear.  Tympanic membrane shows no perforation, is intact.,NOSE:  The patient has a slightly deviated right septum.  Septum has a large perforation in the anterior 2/3rd of the septum.  This appears to be well healed.  There is no sign of crusting in the nose.,ORAL CAVITY:  No lesions or sores.  Tonsils show no exudate or erythema.,NECK:  No cervical lymphadenopathy.,VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 98 degrees Fahrenheit, pulse 77, respirations 18, blood pressure 130/73.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:  ,The patient is a 40-year-old female with a past medical history of repair of deviated septum with complication of a septal perforation.  At this time, the patient states that her septal perforation bothers her as she feels that she has very dry air through her nose as well as occasional epistaxis.  At this time, I counseled the patient on the risks and benefits of surgery.  She will consider surgery but at this time, would like to continue using the saline nasal wash as well as occasional Bactroban to the nose if there is occasional irritation or crusting, which she will apply with the edge of a Q-tip.  We will see her back in 3 weeks and if the patient does not feel relieved from the Bactroban as well as saline nasal spray wash, we will consider setting the patient for surgery at that time.
PROCEDURE: , Circumcision.,Signed informed consent was obtained and the procedure explained.,The child was placed in a Circumstraint board and restrained in the usual fashion.  The area of the penis and scrotum were prepared with povidone iodine solution.  The area was draped with sterile drapes, and the remainder of the procedure was done with sterile procedure.  A dorsal penile block was done using 2 injections of 0.3 cc each, 1% plain lidocaine.  A dorsal slit was made, and the prepuce was dissected away from the glans penis.  A ** Gomco clamp was properly placed for 5 minutes.  During this time, the foreskin was sharply excised using a #10 blade.  With removal of the clamp, there was a good cosmetic outcome and no bleeding.  The child appeared to tolerate the procedure well.  Care instructions were given to the parents.
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:,  Painful right knee status post total knee arthroplasty many years ago.  The patient had gradual onset of worsening soreness and pain in this knee.  X-ray showed that the poly seems to be worn out significantly in this area.,DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:,  Status post poly exchange, right knee, total knee arthroplasty.,CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:,  Stable.,PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,  Poly exchange total knee, right.,CONSULTATIONS: , Anesthesia managed femoral nerve block on the patient.,HOSPITAL COURSE:  ,The patient was admitted with revision right total knee arthroplasty and replacement of patellar and tibial poly components.  The patient recovered well after this.  Working with PT, she was able to ambulate with minimal assistance.  Nerve block was removed by anesthesia.  The patient did well on oral pain medications.  The patient was discharged home.  She is actually going to home with her son who will be able to assist her and look after her for anything she might need.  The patient is comfortable with this, understands the therapy regimen, and is very satisfied after the procedure.,DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS AND MEDICATIONS: , The patient is to be discharged home to the care of the son.  Diet is regular.  Activity, weight bear as tolerated right lower extremity.  Continue to do physical therapy exercises.  The patient will be discharged home on Coumadin 4 mg a day as the INR was 1.9 on discharge with twice weekly lab checks.  Vicodin 5/500 mg take one to two tablets p.o. q.4-6h.  Resume home medications.  Call the office or return to the emergency room for any concerns including increased redness, swelling, drainage, fever, or any concerns regarding operation or site of incision.  The patient is to follow up with Dr. ABC in two weeks.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:, Nonrestorable teeth.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:, Nonrestorable teeth.,PROCEDURE:, Full-mouth extraction of tooth #3,5,6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 31, and alveoloplasty in all four quadrants.,ANESTHESIA:,  Nasotracheal general anesthesia.,IV FLUIDS:, A 700 mL of crystalloid.,EBL:, Minimum.,URINE:, Not recorded.,COMPLICATIONS:, None.,CONDITION:, Good.,DISPOSITION:,  The patient was extubated in OR, transferred to PACU for recovery and will be transferred for 23-hour observation and discharged on subsequent day.,BRIEF HISTORY OF THE PATIENT:, Indicated the patient for surgery.  The patient is a 41-year-old white female with multiple grossly decaying nonrestorable teeth.  After discussing treatment options, she decided she will like to have extraction of remaining teeth with subsequent placement of upper and lower complete dentures.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:, Positive for a narcotic abuse, presently on methadone treatment, hepatitis C, and headaches.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:, C-section x2.,MEDICATIONS,Right now include:,1.  Methadone.,2.  Beta-blocker.,3.  Xanax.,4.  Norco.,5.  Clindamycin.,ALLERGIES:, THE PATIENT IS ALLERGIC TO PENICILLIN.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:, The patient was greeted in preoperative holding area, subsequently transferred to OR #17 where the patient was intubated with anesthesia staff present.  The patient was prepped and draped in sterile fashion.  Local anesthesia consisting of 1% lidocaine and 1:100,000 epinephrine, total 15 mL were injected into the maxillomandible.  Throat pack was placed in the mouth after a thorough suction.,A full-thickness mucoperiosteal flap was reflected from the upper right to the upper left, tooth number 3,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13, and 14 and were elevated and delivered.  Extraction sites were thoroughly curettaged and irrigated.  Bony undercuts were removed then smoothed with rongeurs and bone saw.  After thorough irrigation, the postsurgical site closed in a running fashion with 3-0 chromic sutures.  Subsequently, a full-thickness mucoperiosteal flap was reflected in the mandible, tooth numbers 31, 28, 27, 26, 25, 24, 23, 22, 21, 20, and 19 were elevated and delivered with simple forceps extractions.  Bony undercuts were removed with rongeurs and smoothed with bone saw.,Extraction sites were thoroughly irrigated and curettaged.  Wound was closed in continuous fashion 3-0 chromic.  After adequate hematosis was achieved, 0.5% Marcaine and 1:200,000 epinephrine was injected in the maxillomandible thus to heal to aid in hematosis and pain control.  Total of 8 mL were used.  Throat pack was subsequently removed.  Orogastric tube was passed to suction out the stomach.,The patient was subsequently extubated in OR and transferred to PACU for recovery.  The patient would be placed in 23-hour observation.
TITLE OF PROCEDURE: , Insertion of Port-A-Cath via left subclavian vein using fluoroscopy.,PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  ,Metastatic renal cell carcinoma.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Metastatic renal cell carcinoma.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:,  This is a 49-year-old gentleman was referred by Dr. A.  The patient underwent a left nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma in 1999 in Philadelphia.  He has developed recurrence with metastases to the lung and to bone.,The patient is on dialysis via a right internal jugular PermCath that was placed elsewhere.,In the operating room under monitored anesthesia care with intravenous sedation, the patient was prepped and draped suitably.  Lidocaine 1% with epinephrine was used for local anesthesia and the left subclavian vein was punctured at the first pass without difficulty.  A J-wire was guided into place under fluoroscopic control.  A 7.2-French vortex titanium Port-A-Cath was now anchored in the subcutaneous pocket made just below using 3-0 Prolene.  The attached catheter tunneled, cut to the appropriate length and placed through the sheath that was then peeled away.  Fluoroscopy showed good catheter disposition in the superior vena cava.  The catheter was accessed with a butterfly Huber needle, blood was aspirated easily and the system was then flushed using heparinized saline.  The pocket was irrigated using antibiotic saline and closed with absorbable suture.  The port was left accessed with the butterfly needle after dressings were applied and the patient is to report to Dr. A's office later today for the commencement of chemotherapy.  There were no complications.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: , Right distal ureteral calculus.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,The patient had hematuria and a CT urogram at ABC Radiology on 01/04/07 showing a 1 cm non-obstructing calcification in the right distal ureter.  He had a KUB also showing a teardrop shaped calcification apparently in the right lower ureter.  He comes in now for right ureteroscopy, Holmium laser lithotripsy, right ureteral stent placement.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,1.  Prostatism.,2.  Coronary artery disease.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:,1.  Right spermatocelectomy.,2.  Left total knee replacement in 1987.,3.  Right knee in 2005.,MEDICATIONS:,1.  Coumadin 3 mg daily.,2.  Fosamax.,3.  Viagra p.r.n.,ALLERGIES: , NONE.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  CARDIOPULMONARY:  No shortness of breath or chest pain.  GI:  No nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or constipation.  GU:  Voids well.  MUSCULOSKELETAL:  No weakness or strokes.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Noncontributory.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL APPEARANCE:  An alert male in no distress.,HEENT:  Grossly normal.,NECK:  Supple.,LUNGS:  Clear.,HEART:  Normal sinus rhythm.  No murmur or gallop.,ABDOMEN:  Soft.  No masses.,GENITALIA:  Normal penis.  Testicles descended bilaterally.,RECTAL:  Examination benign.,EXTREMITIES:  No edema.,IMPRESSION: , Right distal ureteral calculus.,PLAN: , Right ureteroscopy, ureteral lithotripsy.  Risks and complications discussed with the patient.  He signed a true informed consent.  No guarantees or warrantees were given.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,1.  Pelvic mass.,2.  Suspected right ovarian cyst.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,1.  Pelvic mass.,2.  Suspected right ovarian cyst.,PROCEDURES,1.  Exploratory laparotomy.,2.  Extensive lysis of adhesions.,3.  Right salpingo-oophorectomy.,ANESTHESIA:,  General.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , 200 mL,SPECIMENS:  ,Right tube and ovary.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,FINDINGS: , Extensive adhesive disease with the omentum and bowel walling of the entire pelvis, which required more than 45 minutes of operating time in order to establish visualization and to clear the bowel and other important structures from the ovarian cyst, tube, and ovary in order to remove them.  The large and small bowels were completely enveloping a large right ovarian cystic mass.  Normal anatomy was difficult to see due to adhesions.  Cyst was ruptured incidentally intraoperatively with approximately 150 mL to 200 mL of turbid fluid.  Cyst wall, tube, and ovary were stripped away from the bowel.  Posterior peritoneum was also removed in order to completely remove the cyst wall ovary and tube.  There was excellent postoperative hemostasis.,PROCEDURE:  ,The patient was taken to the operating room, where general anesthesia was achieved without difficulty.  She was then placed in a dorsal supine position and prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  A vertical midline incision was made from the umbilicus and extended to the symphysis pubis along the line of the patient's prior incision.  Incision was carried down carefully until the peritoneal cavity was reached.  Care was taken upon entry of the peritoneum to avoid injury of underlying structures.  At this point, the extensive adhesive disease was noted, again requiring greater than 45 minutes of dissection in order to visualize the intended anatomy for surgery.  The omentum was carefully stripped away from the patient's right side developing a window.  This was extended down along the inferior portion of the incision removing the omentum from its adhesions to the anterior peritoneum and what appears to be the vesicouterine peritoneum.  A large mass of bowel was noted to be adherent to itself causing a quite tortuous course.  Adhesiolysis was performed in order to free up the bowel in order to pack it out of the pelvis.  Excellent hemostasis was noted.  The bowel was then packed over of the pelvis allowing visualization of a matted mass of large and small bowel surrounding a large ovarian cyst.  Careful adhesive lysis and dissection enabled the colon to be separated from the posterior wall of the cyst.  Small bowel and portion of the colon were adherent anteriorly on the cyst and during the dissection of these to remove them from their attachment, the cyst was ruptured.  Large amount of turbid fluid was noted and was evacuated.  The cyst wall was then carefully placed under tension and stripped away from the patient's small and large bowel.  Once the bowel was freed, the remnants of round ligament was identified, elevated, and the peritoneum was incised opening the retroperitoneal space.,The retroperitoneal space was opened following the line of the ovarian vessels, which were identified and elevated and a window made inferior to the ovarian vessels, but superior to the course of the ureter.  This pedicle was doubly clamped, transected, and tied with a free tie of #2-0 Vicryl.  A suture ligature of #0 Vicryl was used to obtain hemostasis.  Excellent hemostasis was noted at this pedicle.  The posterior peritoneum and portion of the remaining broad ligament were carefully dissected and shelled out to remove the tube and ovary, which was still densely adherent to the peritoneum.  Care was taken at the side of the remnant of the uterine vessels.  However, a laceration of the uterine vessels did occur, which was clamped with a right-angle clamp, and carefully sutured ligated with excellent hemostasis noted.  Remainder of the specimen was then shelled out including portions of the posterior and sidewall peritoneum and removed.,The opposite tube and ovary were identified, were also matted behind a large amount of large bowel and completely enveloped and wrapped in the fallopian tube.  Minimal dissection was performed in order to ascertain and ensure that the ovary appeared completely normal.  It was then left in situ.  Hemostasis was achieved in the pelvis with the use of electrocautery.  The abdomen and pelvis were copiously irrigated with warm saline solution.  The peritoneal edges were inspected and found to have good hemostasis after the side of the uterine artery pedicle, and the ovarian vessel pedicle.  The areas of the bowel had previously been dissected and due to adhesive disease, it was carefully inspected and excellent hemostasis was noted.,All instruments and packs removed from the patient's abdomen.  The abdomen was closed with a running mattress closure of #0 PDS, beginning at the superior aspect of the incision, and extending inferiorly.  Excellent closure of the incision was noted.  The subcutaneous tissues were then copiously irrigated.  Hemostasis was achieved with the use of cautery.  Subcutaneous tissues were reapproximated to close the edge space with a several interrupted sutures of #0 plain gut suture.  The skin was closed with staples.,Incision was sterilely clean and dressed.  The patient was awakened from general anesthesia and taken to the recovery room in stable condition.  All counts were noted correct times three.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Coronal hypospadias with chordee and asthma.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Coronal hypospadias with chordee and asthma.,PROCEDURE: , Hypospadias repair (TIP) with tissue flap relocation and chordee release (Nesbit tuck).,ANESTHETIC: , General inhalational anesthetic with a caudal block.,FLUIDS RECEIVED:  ,300 mL of crystalloid.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:  ,20 mL.,TUBES/DRAINS:  ,An 8-French Zaontz catheter.,INDICATIONS FOR OPERATION:  ,The patient is a 17-month-old boy with hypospadias abnormality.  The plan is for repair.,DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION:  ,The patient was taken to the operating room, where surgical consent, operative site, and patient identification were verified.  Once he was anesthetized, a caudal block was placed.  IV antibiotics were given.  He was then placed in the supine position.  The foreskin was retracted and cleansed.  He was then sterilely prepped and draped.  A stay stitch of 4-0 Prolene was then placed on the glans.  The urethra was calibrated with the lacrimal duct probes to an 8-French.  We then marked out the coronal cuff, the penile shaft skin as well as the glanular plate for future surgery with a marking pen.,We then used a 15-blade knife to circumscribe the penis around the coronal cuff.  We then degloved the penis using the curved tenotomy scissors, and electrocautery was used for hemostasis.  The patient had some splaying of the spongiosum tissue, which was also incised laterally and rotated to make a secondary flap.  Once the penis was degloved, and the excessive chordee tissue was released, we then placed a vessel loop tourniquet around the base of the penis and using IV grade saline injected the penis for an artifical erection.  He was still noted to have chordee, so a midline incision through the Buck fascia was made with a 15-blade knife and Heineke-Mikulicz closure using 5-0 Prolene was then used for the chordee Nesbit tuck.  We repeated the artificial erection and the penis was straight.  We then incised the urethral plate with an ophthalmic blade in the midline, and then elevated the glanular wings using a 15-blade knife to elevate and then incise them.  Using the curved iris scissors, we then also further mobilized the glanular wings.  The 8-French Zaontz was then placed while the tourniquet was still in place into the urethral plate.  The upper aspect of the distal meatus was then closed with an interrupted suture of 7-0 Vicryl, and then using a running subcuticular closure, we closed the urethral plates over the Zaontz catheter.  We then mobilized subcutaneous tissue from the penile shaft skin, and the inner perpetual skin on the dorsum, and then buttonholed the flap, placed it over the head of the penis, and then, used it to cover of the hypospadias repair with tacking sutures of 7-0 Vicryl.  We then rolled the spongiosum flap to cover the distal urethra that was also somewhat dysplastic; 7-0 Vicryl was used for that as well.  5-0 Vicryl was used to roll the glans with 2 deep sutures, and then, horizontal mattress sutures of 7-0 Vicryl were used to reconstitute the glans.  Interrupted sutures of 7-0 Vicryl were used to approximate the urethral meatus to the glans.  Once this was done, we then excised the excessive penile shaft skin, and used the interrupted sutures of 6-0 chromic to attach the penile shaft skin to the coronal cuff.  On the ventrum itself, we used horizontal mattress sutures to close the defect.,At the end of the procedure, the Zaontz catheter was sutured into place with a 4-0 Prolene suture, Dermabond tissue adhesive, and Surgicel was used as a dressing and a second layer of Telfa and clear eye tape was then used to tape it into place.  IV Toradol was given at the procedure.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and was in a stable condition upon transfer to the recovery room.
REASON FOR CONSULTATION: , Left flank pain, ureteral stone.,BRIEF HISTORY: , The patient is a 76-year-old female who was referred to us from Dr. X for left flank pain.  The patient was found to have a left ureteral stone measuring about 1.3 cm in size per the patient's history.  The patient has had pain in the abdomen and across the back for the last four to five days.  The patient has some nausea and vomiting.  The patient wants something done for the stone.  The patient denies any hematuria, dysuria, burning or pain.  The patient denies any fevers.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Negative.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  ,Years ago she had surgery that she does not recall.,MEDICATIONS: , None.,ALLERGIES: , None.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , Denies any seizure disorder, chest pain, denies any shortness of breath, denies any dysuria, burning or pain, denies any nausea or vomiting at this time.  The patient does have a history of nausea and vomiting, but is doing better.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  The patient is afebrile.  Vitals are stable.,HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, left-sided flank pain and left lower abdominal pain.,The rest of the exam is benign.,LABORATORY DATA: , White count of 7.8, hemoglobin 13.8, and platelets 234,000.  The patient's creatinine is 0.92.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Left flank pain.,2.  Left ureteral stone.,3.  Nausea and vomiting.,PLAN: , Plan for laser lithotripsy tomorrow.  Options such as watchful waiting, laser lithotripsy, and shockwave lithotripsy were discussed.  The patient has a pretty enlarged stone.  Failure of the procedure if the stone is significantly impacted into the ureteral wall was discussed.  The patient understood that the success of the surgery may be or may not be 100%, that she may require shockwave lithotripsy if we are unable to get the entire stone out in one sitting.  The patient understood all the risk, benefits of the procedure and wanted to proceed.  Need for stent was also discussed with the patient.  The patient will be scheduled for surgery tomorrow.  Plan for continuation of the antibiotics, obtain urinalysis and culture, and plan for KUB to evaluate for the exact location of the stone prior to surgery tomorrow.
SUBJECTIVE: , The patient states that she feels better.  She is on IV amiodarone, the dosage pattern is appropriate for ventricular tachycardia.  Researching the available records, I find only an EMS verbal statement that tachycardia of wide complex was seen.  There is no strip for me to review all available EKG tracings show a narrow complex atrial fibrillation pattern that is now converted to sinus rhythm.,The patient states that for a week, she has been home postoperative from aortic valve replacement on 12/01/08 at ABC Medical Center.  The aortic stenosis was secondary to a congenital bicuspid valve, by her description.  She states that her shortness of breath with exertion has been stable, but has yet to improve from its preoperative condition.  She has not had any decline in her postoperative period of her tolerance to exertion.,The patient had noted intermittent bursts of fast heart rate at home that had been increasing over the last several days.  Last night, she had a prolonged episode for which she contacted EMS.  Her medications at home had been uninterrupted and without change from those listed, being Toprol-XL 100 mg q.a.m., Dyazide 25/37.5 mg, Nexium 40 mg, all taken once a day.  She has been maintaining her Crestor and Zetia at 20 and 10 mg respectively.  She states that she has been taking her aspirin at 325 mg q.a.m.  She remains on Zyrtec 10 mg q.a.m.  Her only allergy is listed to latex.,OBJECTIVE:,VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 36.1, heart rate 60, respirations 14, room air saturation 98%, and blood pressure 108/60.  The patient shows a normal sinus rhythm on the telemetry monitor with an occasional PAC.,GENERAL:  She is alert and in no apparent distress.,HEENT:  Eyes:  EOMI.  PERRLA.  Sclerae nonicteric.  No lesions of lids, lashes, brows, or conjunctivae noted.  Funduscopic examination unremarkable.  Ears:  Normal set, shape, TMs, canals and hearing.  Nose and Sinuses:  Negative.  Mouth, Tongue, Teeth, and Throat:  Negative except for dental work.,NECK:  Supple and pain free without bruit, JVD, adenopathy or thyroid abnormality.,CHEST:  Lungs are clear bilaterally to auscultation.  The incision is well healed and without evidence of significant cellulitis.,HEART:  Shows a regular rate and rhythm without murmur, gallop, heave, click, thrill or rub.  There is an occasional extra beat noted, which corresponds to a premature atrial contraction on the monitor.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and benign without hepatosplenomegaly, rebound, rigidity or guarding.,EXTREMITIES:  Show no evidence of DVT, acute arthritis, cellulitis or pedal edema.,NEUROLOGIC:  Nonfocal without lateralizing findings for cranial or peripheral nervous systems, strength, sensation, and cerebellar function.  Gait and station were not tested.,MENTAL STATUS:  Shows the patient to be alert, coherent with full capacity for decision making.,BACK:  Negative to inspection or percussion.,LABORATORY DATA: , Shows from 12/15/08 2100, hemoglobin 11.6, white count 12.9, and platelets 126,000.  INR 1.0.  Electrolytes are normal with exception potassium 3.3.  GFR is decreased at 50 with creatinine of 1.1.  Glucose was 119.  Magnesium was 2.3.  Phosphorus 3.8.  Calcium was slightly low at 7.8.  The patient has had ionized calcium checked at Munson that was normal at 4.5 prior to her discharge.  Troponin is negative x2 from 2100 and repeat at 07:32.  This morning, her BNP was 163 at admission.  Her admission chest x-ray was unremarkable and did not show evidence of cardiomegaly to suggest pericardial effusion.  Her current EKG tracing from 05:42 shows a sinus bradycardia with Wolff-Parkinson White Pattern, a rate of 58 beats per minute, and a corrected QT interval of 557 milliseconds.  Her PR interval was 0.12.,We received a call from Munson Medical Center that a bed had been arranged for the patient.  I contacted Dr. Varner and we reviewed the patient's managed to this point.  All combined impression is that the patient was likely to not have had actual ventricular tachycardia.  This is based on her EP study from October showing her to be non-inducible.  In addition, she had a cardiac catheterization that showed no evidence of coronary artery disease.  What is most likely that the patient has postoperative atrial fibrillation.  Her WPW may have degenerated into a ventricular tachycardia, but this is unlikely.  At this point, we will convert the patient from IV amiodarone to oral amiodarone and obtain an echocardiogram to verify that she does not have evidence of pericardial effusion in the postoperative period.  I will recheck her potassium, magnesium, calcium, and phosphorus at this point and make adjustments if indicated.  Dr. Varner will be making arrangements for an outpatient Holter monitor and further followup post-discharge.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response.,2.  Wolff-Parkinson White Syndrome.,3.  Recent aortic valve replacement with bioprosthetic Medtronic valve.,4.  Hyperlipidemia.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Extensive perianal and intra-anal condyloma.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Extensive perianal and intra-anal condyloma.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,  Cauterization of peri and intra-anal condylomas.,ANESTHESIA:  ,IV sedation and local.,SPECIMEN: , Multiple condylomas were sent to pathology.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , 10 cc.,BRIEF HISTORY: , This is a 22-year-old female, who presented to the office complaining of condylomas she had noted in her anal region.  She has noticed approximately three to four weeks ago.  She denies any pain but does state that there is some itching.  No other symptoms associated.,GROSS FINDINGS: , We found multiple extensive perianal and intra-anal condylomas, which are likely represent condyloma acuminata.,PROCEDURE: , After risks, benefits and complications were explained to the patient and a verbal consent was obtained, the patient was taken to the operating room.  After the area was prepped and draped, a local anesthesia was achieved with Marcaine.  Bovie electrocautery was then used to remove the condylomas taking care to achieve meticulous hemostasis throughout the course of the procedure.  The condylomas were removed 350 degrees from the perianal and intra-anal regions.  After all visible condylomas were removed, the area was again washed with acetic acid solution.  Any residual condylomas were then cauterized at this time.  The area was then examined again for any residual bleeding and there was none.,DISPOSITION: , The patient was taken to Recovery in stable condition.  She will be sent home with prescriptions for a topical lidocaine and Vicodin.  She will be instructed to do sitz bath b.i.d., and post-bowel movement.  She will follow up in the office next week.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a charming and delightful 46-year-old woman admitted with palpitations and presyncope.,The patient is active and a previously healthy young woman, who has had nine years of occasional palpitations.  Symptoms occur three to four times per year and follow no identifiable pattern.  She has put thought and effort in trying to identify precipitating factors or circumstances but has been unable to do so.  Symptoms can last for an hour or more and she feels as if her heart is going very rapidly but has never measured her heart rate.  The last two episodes, the most recent of which was yesterday, were associated with feeling of darkness descending as if a shade was being pulled down in front of her vision.  On neither occasion did she lose consciousness.,Yesterday, she had a modestly active morning taking a walk with her dogs and performing her normal routines.  While working on a computer, she had a spell.  Palpitations persisted for a short time thereafter as outlined in the hospital's admission note prompting her to seek evaluation at the hospital.  She was in sinus rhythm on arrival and has been asymptomatic since.,No history of exogenous substance abuse, alcohol abuse, or caffeine abuse.  She does have a couple of sodas and at least one to two coffees daily.  She is a nonsmoker.  She is a mother of two.  There is no family history of congenital heart disease.  She has had no history of thoracic trauma.  No symptoms to suggest thyroid disease.,No known history of diabetes, hypertension, or dyslipidemia.  Family history is negative for ischemic heart disease.,Remote history is significant for an ACL repair, complicated by contact urticaria from a neoprene cast.,No regular medications prior to admission.,The only allergy is the neoprene reaction outlined above.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , Vital signs as charted.  Pupils are reactive.  Sclerae nonicteric.  Mucous membranes are moist.  Neck veins not distended.  No bruits.  Lungs are clear.  Cardiac exam is regular without murmurs, gallops, or rubs.  Abdomen is soft without guarding, rebound masses, or bruits.  Extremities well perfused.  No edema.  Strong and symmetrical distal pulses.,A 12-lead EKG shows sinus rhythm with normal axis and intervals.  No evidence of preexcitation.,LABORATORY STUDIES: , Unremarkable.  No evidence of myocardial injury.  Thyroid function is pending.,Two-dimensional echocardiogram shows no evidence of clinically significant structural or functional heart disease.,IMPRESSION/PLAN: , Episodic palpitations over a nine-year period.  Outpatient workup would be appropriate.  Event recorder should be obtained and the patient can be seen again in the office upon completion of that study.  Suppressive medication (beta-blocker or Cardizem) was discussed with the patient for symptomatic improvement, though this would be unlikely to be a curative therapy.  The patient expresses a preference to avoid medical therapy if possible.,Thank you for this consultation.  We will be happy to follow her both during this hospitalization and following discharge.  Caffeine avoidance was discussed as well.,ADDENDUM: , During her initial evaluation, a D-dimer was mildly elevated to 5.  CT scan showed no evidence of pulmonary embolus.  Lower extremity venous ultrasound is pending; however, in the absence of embolization to the pulmonary vasculature, this would be an unlikely cause of palpitations.  In addition, no progression over the nine-year period that she has been symptomatic suggests that this is an unlikely cause.,
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,A 67-year-old male with COPD and history of bronchospasm, who presents with a 3-day history of increased cough, respiratory secretions, wheezings, and shortness of breath.  He was seen by me in the office on the day of admission and noted to be dyspneic with audible wheezing and he was admitted for acute asthmatic bronchitis, superimposed upon longstanding COPD.  Unfortunately over the past few months he has returned to pipe smoking.  At the time of admission, he denied fever, diaphoresis, nausea, chest pain or other systemic symptoms.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Status post artificial aortic valve implantation in summer of 2002 and is on chronic Coumadin therapy.  COPD as described above, history of hypertension, and history of elevated cholesterol.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , Heart tones regular with an easily audible mechanical click.  Breath sounds are greatly diminished with rales and rhonchi over all lung fields.,LABORATORY STUDIES:  ,Sodium 139, potassium 4.5, BUN 42, and creatinine 1.7.  Hemoglobin 10.7 and hematocrit 31.7.,HOSPITAL COURSE: , He was started on intravenous antibiotics, vigorous respiratory therapy, intravenous Solu-Medrol.  The patient improved on this regimen.  Chest x-ray did not show any CHF.  The cortisone was tapered.  The patient's oxygenation improved and he was able to be discharged home.,DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  ,Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and acute asthmatic bronchitis.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,DISCHARGE CONDITION: , Guarded.,DISCHARGE PLAN: , Prednisone 20 mg 3 times a day for 2 days, 2 times a day for 5 days and then one daily, Keflex 500 mg 3 times a day and to resume his other preadmission medication, can be given a pneumococcal vaccination before discharge.  To follow up with me in the office in 4-5 days.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Nonpalpable right undescended testis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Nonpalpable right undescended testis with atrophic right testis.,PROCEDURES: , Examination under anesthesia, diagnostic laparoscopy, right orchiectomy, and left testis fixation.,ANESTHESIA:  ,General inhalation anesthetic with caudal block.,FLUID RECEIVED:  ,250 mL of crystalloids.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Less than 5 mL.,SPECIMEN:,  The tissue sent to Pathology was right testicular remnant.,ABNORMAL FINDINGS:,  Closed ring on right with atrophic vessels going into the ring and there was obstruction at the shoulder of the ring.  Left had open appearing ring but the scrotum was not filled and vas and vessels going into the ring.,INDICATIONS FOR OPERATION: , The patient is a 2-year-old boy with a right nonpalpable undescended testis.  The plan is for evaluation and repair.,DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION:  ,The patient was taken to the operating room, where surgical consent, operative site, and patient identification were verified.  Once he was anesthetized, a caudal block was placed.  The patient was placed in supine position and examined.  The left testis well within scrotum.  The right was again not palpable despite the patient being asleep with multiple attempts to check.,The patient was then sterilely prepped and draped.  An 8-French feeding tube was then placed within his bladder through the urethra and attached to the drainage.  We then incised the infraumbilical area once he was sterilely prepped and draped, with 15 blade knife, then using Hasson technique with stay stitches in the anterior and posterior rectus fascia sheath of 3-0 Monocryl.  We entered the peritoneum with the 5-mm one-step system.  We then used the short 0-degree lens for laparoscopy.  We then insufflated with carbon dioxide insufflation to pressure of 12 mmHg.  There was no bleeding noted upon evaluation of the abdomen and again the findings were as mentioned with closed ring with vas and vessels going to the left and vessels and absent vas on the right where the closed ring was found.  Because there was no testis found in the abdomen, we then evacuated the gas and closed the fascial sheath with the 3-0 Monocryl tacking sutures.  Then skin was closed with subcutaneous closure of 4-0 Rapide.  A curvilinear upper scrotal incision was made on the right with 15 blade knife and carried down through the subcutaneous tissue with electrocautery.  Electrocautery was used for hemostasis.  A curved tenotomy scissor was used to open the sac.  The tunica vaginalis was visualized and grasped and then dissected up towards external ring.  There was no apparent testicular tissue.  We did remove it, however, tying off the cord structure with a 4-0 Vicryl suture and putting a tagging suture at the base of the tissue sent.  We then closed the subdartos area with the subcutaneous closure of 4-0 chromic.  We then did a similar curvilinear incision on the left side for testicular fixation.  Delivered the testis into the field, which had a type III epididymal attachment and was indeed about 3 to 4 mL in size, which was larger than expected for the patient's age.  We then closed the upper aspect of the subdartos pouch with the 4-0 chromic pursestring suture and placed testis back into the scrotum in the proper orientation and closed the dartos, skin, and subcutaneous closure with 4-0 chromic on left hemiscrotum.  At the end of the procedure, the patient received IV Toradol and had Dermabond tissue adhesive placed on both incisions and left testis was well descended in the scrotum at the end of the procedure.  The patient tolerated procedure well, and was in stable condition upon transfer to the recovery room.
HISTORY: , The patient is a 67-year-old female, was referred to Medical Center's Outpatient Rehabilitation Department for skilled speech therapy to improve her functional communication skills and swallowing function and safety.  At the onset of therapy, on 03/26/08, the patient was NPO with a G-tube and the initial speech and language evaluation revealed global aphasia with an aphasia quotient of 3.6/100 based on the Western Aphasia Battery.  Since the initial evaluation, the patient has attended 60 outpatient speech therapy sessions, which have focussed on her receptive communication, expressive language, multimodality communication skills, and swallowing function and safety.,SHORT-TERM GOALS:,1.  The patient met 3 out of 4 original short-term therapy goals, which were to complete a modified barium swallow study, which she did do and which revealed no aspiration.  At this time, the patient is eating and drinking and taking all medications by mouth; however, her G-tube is still present.  The patient was instructed to talk to the primary care physician about removal of her feeding tube.,2.  The patient will increase accuracy of yes-no responses to greater than 80% accuracy.  She did accomplish this goal.  The patient is also able to identify named objects with greater than 80% accuracy.,ADDITIONAL GOALS: , Following the completion of these goals, additional goals were established.  Based on reevaluation, the patient met 2 out of these 3 initial goals and she is currently able to read and understand simple sentences with greater than 90% accuracy independently and she is able to write 10 words related to basic wants and needs with greater than 80% accuracy independently.  The patient continues to have difficulty stating verbally, yes or no, to questions as well as accurately using head gestures and to respond to yes-no questions.  The patient continues to have marked difficulty with her expressive language abilities.  She is able to write simple words to help express her basic wants and needs.  She has made great strides; however, with her receptive communication, she is able to read words as well as short phrases and able to point to named objects and answer simple-to-moderate complex yes-no questions.  A reevaluation completed on 12/01/08, revealed an aphasia quotient of 26.4.  Once again, she made significant improvement and comprehension, but continues to have unintelligible speech.  An alternative communication device was discussed with the patient and her husband, but at this time, the patient does not want to utilize a communication device.  If, in the future, the patient continues to struggle with her expressive communication, an alternative augmented communication device would be a benefit to her.  Please reconsult at that time if and when the patient is ready to use a speech generating device.  The patient is discharged from my services at this time due to a plateau in her progress.  Numerous home activities were recommended to allow her to continue to make progress at home.
REASON FOR CONSULTATION: , Azotemia.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,The patient is a 36-year-old gentleman admitted to the hospital because he passed out at home.,Over the past week, he has been noticing increasing shortness of breath.  He also started having some abdominal pain; however, he continued about his regular activity until the other day when he passed out at home.  His wife called paramedics and he was brought to the emergency room.,The patient has had a workup at this time which shows bilateral pulmonary infarcts.  He has been started on heparin and we are asked to see him because of increasing BUN and creatinine.,The patient has no past history of any renal problems.  He feels that he has been in good health until this current episode.  His appetite has been good.  He denies swelling in his feet or ankles.  He denies chest pain.  He denies any problems with bowel habits.  He denies any unexplained weight loss.  He denies any recent change in bowel habits or recent change in urinary habits.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  A gentleman seen who appears his stated age.,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure is 130/70.,CHEST:  Chest expands equally bilaterally.  Breath sounds are heard bilaterally.,HEART:  Had a regular rhythm, no gallops or rubs.,ABDOMEN:  Obese.  There is no organomegaly.  There are no bruits.  There is no peripheral edema.  He has good pulse in all 4 extremities.  He has good muscle mass.,LABORATORY DATA: , The patient's current chemistries include a hemoglobin of 14.8, white count of 16.3, his sodium 133, potassium 5.1, chloride 104, CO2 of 19, a BUN of 26, and a creatinine of 3.5.  On admission to the hospital, his creatinine on 6/27/2009 was 0.9.,The patient has had several studies including a CAT scan of his abdomen, which shows poor perfusion to his right kidney.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Acute renal failure, probable renal vein thrombosis.,2.  Hypercoagulable state.,3.  Deep venous thromboses with pulmonary embolism.,DISCUSSION: , We are presented with a 36-year-old gentleman who has been in good health until this current event.  He most likely has a hypercoagulable state and has bilateral pulmonary emboli.  Most likely, the patient has also had emboli to his renal veins and it is causing renal vein thrombosis.,Interestingly, the urine protein was obtained which is not that elevated and I would suspect that it would have been higher.  Unfortunately, the patient has been exposed to IV dye and my anxiety is that this too is contributing to his current problem.,The patient's urine output is about 30 to 40 mL per hour.,Several chemistries have been ordered.  A triple renal scan has been ordered.,I reviewed all of this with the patient and his wife.  Hopefully under his current anticoagulation, there will be some resolution of his renal vein thrombosis.  If not and his renal failure progresses, we are looking at dialytic intervention.  Both he and his wife were aware of this.  ,Thank you very much for asking to see this acutely ill gentleman in consultation with you.
HPI - WORKERS COMP:, The current problem began on or about 2/10/2000. The symptoms were sudden in onset. According to the patient, the current problem is a result of a work injury involving lifting approximately 40 pounds. Pain location (lower body): left hip. The patient describes the pain as dull, aching and stabbing. The severity of the pain ranges from mild to severe. The pain is severe occasionally. It is present constantly. The pain is made worse by sitting, riding in a car, twisting and lifting. The pain is made better by rest. The patient's symptoms appear to be soft tissue (spine), myofascial (spine) and musculoskeletal (spine) in origin. Sleep alteration because of pain: positive and wakes up after getting to sleep nightly. Systemic signs/symptoms relevant or potentially relevant to the spine: none. Patient reports the following symptoms: depressed mood, loss of interest or pleasure in all or most activities, insomnia, inability to concentrate, fatigue and loss of energy.,WORK STATUS:,
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Acute appendicitis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Ruptured appendicitis.,PROCEDURE:,  Laparoscopic appendectomy.,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE:,  This patient is a 4-year-old boy with less than 24-hour history of apparent right lower quadrant abdominal pain associated with vomiting and fevers.  The patient has elevated white count on exam and CT scan consistent with acute appendicitis.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , The patient was taken to the operating room, placed supine, put under general endotracheal anesthesia.  The patient's abdomen was prepped and draped in usual sterile fashion.  A periumbilical incision was made.  The fascia was incised.  Peritoneal cavity entered bluntly.  A 10-mm trocar and scope was passed.  Peritoneal cavity was insufflated.  Five-mm ports placed in left lower and hypogastric areas.  On visualization of the right lower quadrant, appendix was visualized stuck against the right anterior abdominal wall, there is obvious site of perforation and leakage of content and pus.  We proceeded to take the mesoappendix down to the base, and once the base was free, we placed GIA stapler across the base, fired the stapler, removed the appendix through the periumbilical port site.  We irrigated and suctioned out the right lower and pelvic areas.  We then removed the ports under direct visualization, closed the periumbilical port site fascia with 0 Vicryl, all skin incisions with 5-0 Monocryl, and dressed with Steri-Strips.  The patient was extubated in the operating table and taken back to recovery room.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.
REASON FOR CONSULTATION:  ,Abnormal echocardiogram findings and followup.  Shortness of breath, congestive heart failure, and valvular insufficiency.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,The patient is an 86-year-old female admitted for evaluation of abdominal pain and bloody stools.  The patient has colitis and also diverticulitis, undergoing treatment.  During the hospitalization, the patient complains of shortness of breath, which is worsening.  The patient underwent an echocardiogram, which shows severe mitral regurgitation and also large pleural effusion.  This consultation is for further evaluation in this regard.  As per the patient, she is an 86-year-old female, has limited activity level.  She has been having shortness of breath for many years.  She also was told that she has a heart murmur, which was not followed through on a regular basis.,CORONARY RISK FACTORS: , History of hypertension, no history of diabetes mellitus, nonsmoker, cholesterol status unclear, no prior history of coronary artery disease, and family history noncontributory.,FAMILY HISTORY:  ,Nonsignificant.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: , No major surgery.,MEDICATIONS: , Presently on Lasix, potassium supplementation, Levaquin, hydralazine 10 mg b.i.d., antibiotic treatments, and thyroid supplementation.,ALLERGIES:  ,AMBIEN, CARDIZEM, AND IBUPROFEN.,PERSONAL HISTORY:,  She is a nonsmoker.  Does not consume alcohol.  No history of recreational drug use.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  ,Basically GI pathology with diverticulitis, colitis, hypothyroidism, arthritis, questionable hypertension, no prior history of coronary artery disease, and heart murmur.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS,CONSTITUTIONAL:  Weakness, fatigue, and tiredness.,HEENT:  History of cataract, blurred vision, and hearing impairment.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Shortness of breath and heart murmur.  No coronary artery disease.,RESPIRATORY:  Shortness of breath.  No pneumonia or valley fever.,GASTROINTESTINAL:  No nausea, vomiting, hematemesis, or melena.,UROLOGICAL:  No frequency or urgency.,MUSCULOSKELETAL:  Arthritis and severe muscle weakness.,SKIN:  Nonsignificant.,NEUROLOGICAL:  No TIA or CVA.  No seizure disorder.,ENDOCRINE/HEMATOLOGICAL:  As above.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  Pulse of 84, blood pressure of 168/74, afebrile, and respiratory rate 16 per minute.,HEENT/NECK:  Head is atraumatic and normocephalic.  Neck veins flat.  No significant carotid bruits appreciated.,LUNGS:  Air entry bilaterally fair.  No obvious rales or wheezes.,HEART:  PMI displaced.  S1, S2 with systolic murmur at the precordium, grade 2/6.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.,EXTREMITIES:  Chronic skin changes.  Feeble pulses distally.  No clubbing or cyanosis.,DIAGNOSTIC DATA: , EKG:  Normal sinus rhythm.  No acute ST-T changes.,Echocardiogram report was reviewed.,LABORATORY DATA:,  H&H 13 and 39.  BUN and creatinine within normal limits.  Potassium within normal limits.  BNP 9290.,IMPRESSION:,1.  The patient admitted for gastrointestinal pathology, under working treatment.,2.  History of prior heart murmur with echocardiogram findings as above.  Basically revealed normal left ventricular function with left atrial enlargement, large pleural effusion, and severe mitral regurgitation and tricuspid regurgitation.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1.  From cardiac standpoint, conservative treatment.  Possibility of a transesophageal echocardiogram to assess valvular insufficiency adequately well discussed extensively.,2.  After extensive discussion, given her age 86, limited activity level, and no intention of undergoing any treatment in this regard from a surgical standpoint, the patient does not wish to proceed with a transesophageal echocardiogram.,3.  Based on the above findings, we will treat her medically with ACE inhibitors and diuretics and see how she fares.  She has a normal LV function.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Torn anterior cruciate ligament, right knee.,2.  Patellofemoral instability, right knee.,3.  Possible torn medial meniscus.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Complete tear anterior cruciate ligament, right knee.,2.  Complex tear of the posterior horn lateral meniscus.,3.  Tear of posterior horn medial meniscus.,4.  Patellofemoral instability.,5.  Chondromalacia patella.,PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,1.  Diagnostic operative arthroscopy with repair and reconstruction of anterior cruciate ligament using autologous hamstring tendon, a 40 mm bioabsorbable femoral pin, and a 9 mm bioabsorbable tibial pin.,2.  Repair of lateral meniscus using two fast fixed meniscal repair sutures.,3.  Partial medial meniscectomy.,4.  Partial chondroplasty of patella.,5.  Lateral retinacular release.,6.  Open medial plication as well of the right knee.,ANESTHESIA:,  General.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,TOURNIQUET TIME:,  130 minutes at 325 mmHg.,INTRAOPERATIVE FINDINGS: , There was noted to be a grade-II chondromalacia patellofemoral joint.  The patella was noted to be situated laterally past the lateral femoral condyle.  There was a tear to the posterior horn of the medial meniscus within the white zone.  There was a complex tear involving a horizontal cleavage component to the posterior horn of the lateral meniscus as well in the entire meniscus.  There was a complete tear of the anterior cruciate ligament.  The posterior cruciate ligament appeared intact.  Preoperatively, she had a positive Lachman with a positive pivot shift test as well as increased patellofemoral instability.,HISTORY: , This is a 39-year-old female who has sustained a twisting injury to her knee while on trampoline in late August.  She was diagnosed per MRI.  An MRI confirmed the clinical diagnosis of anterior cruciate ligament tear.  She states she has had multiple episodes of instability to the patellofemoral joint throughout the years with multiple dislocations.  She elected to proceed with surgery to repair the anterior cruciate ligament as well as possibly plicate the medial retinaculum to help prevent further dislocations of the patellofemoral joint.  All risks and benefits of surgery were discussed with her at length.  She was in agreement with the treatment plan.,PROCEDURE:  ,On 09/11/03, she was taken to the operating room at ABCD General Hospital.  She was placed supine on the operating table.  General anesthetic was applied by the Anesthesiology Department.  Tourniquet was placed on the proximal thigh and it was then placed in a knee holder.  She was sterilely prepped and draped in the usual fashion.  An Esmarch was used to exsanguinate the lower extremity.  Tourniquet was inflated to 325 mmHg.  Longitudinal incision was made just medial to the tibial tubercle.  The subcutaneous tissue was carefully dissected.  Hemostasis was controlled with electrocautery.  The tendons of gracilis and semitendinosus were identified and isolated, and then stripped off the musculotendinous junction.  They were taken on the back table.  The soft tissue debris was removed from the tendons.  The ends of the tendons were sewn together using #5 Tycron whip type sutures.  The tendons were measured on back table and found to be 8 mm as the most adequate size, they were then placed under tension on the back table.  Stab incision was made in the inferolateral parapatellar region, through this camera was placed in the knee.  The knee was inflated with saline solution and operative pictures were obtained.  The above findings were noted.  A second port site was initiated in the inferomedial parapatellar region.  Through this, a probe was placed.  Tear in the posterior horn medial meniscus was identified.  It was resected using a meniscal resector.  It was then further contoured using arthroscopic shaver.  Attention was then taken to the lateral compartment.  A partial meniscectomy was performed using the resector and the shaver.  The posterior periphery of the lateral meniscus was also noticed to be unstable.  A repair was then performed using two fasting fixed meniscal repair sutures to help anchor the meniscus around the popliteus tendon.  There was noted to be excellent fixation.  The shaver was then taken into the intrachondral notch.  First a partial chondroplasty was performed on the patella to remove the loose articular debris as well as a partial synovectomy to the medial aspect of the patellar femoral joint.  Next, the remnant of the anterior cruciate ligament was removed using the arthroscopic shaver and arthroplasty was then performed on the medial aspect of the lateral femoral condyle.  Next, a tibial guide was placed through the anterior medial portal.  A ___ pin was then placed up through the anterior incision entering the tibial eminence just anterior to the posterior cruciate ligament.  This tibial tunnel was then drilled using 8 mm cannulated drill.  Next, an over-the-top guide was then placed at approximately the 11:30 position.  A ____ pin was then placed into the femur and 8 mm drill was then used to drill this femoral tunnel approximately 35 mm.  Next the U shape guide was placed through tibial tunnel into the femur.  A pin was then placed through the distal femur from lateral to medial, through the U-shaped guide a puller wire was then passed through the distal femur.  It was then pulled out through the tibial tunnel using the You-shaped guide.  The tendon was then placed around the wire.  The wire was pulled back up through the tibial into the femoral tunnel.  A 40 mm bioabsorbable pin was then placed through the femoral tunnel securing the hamstring tendons.  Attention was then pulled through the tibial tunnel.  The knee was cycled approximately 20 times.  A 9 mm bioabsorbable screw was then placed through the tibial tunnel fixating the distal aspect of the graft.  There was noted definite fixation of the graft.  There was no evidence of impingement either in full flexion or full extension.  The knee was copiously irrigated and it was then suctioned dry.  A longitudinal incision was made just medial to the patellofemoral joint.  Soft tissues were carefully dissected and the medial retinaculum was incised along with the incision.  Following this, a release of lateral retinaculum was performed using a knife to further release the patellofemoral joint and allow further medial plication.  The medial retinaculum was then plicated using #1 Ethibond sutures and then oversewn with #0 Vicryl suture.  The subcuticular tissues were reapproximated with #2-0 Vicryl simple interrupted sutures followed by a #4-0 PDS running subcuticular stitch.  She was placed in a DonJoy knee immobilizer.  The tourniquet was deflated.  It was noted the lower extremity was warm and pink with good capillary refill.  She was transferred to the recovery room in apparent stable and satisfactory condition.  Prognosis for this patient is guarded.  She will be full weightbearing on the lower extremity using the knee immobilizer locked in extension.  She may remove her dressing two to three days, however, follow back in the office in 10 to 14 days for suture removal.  She will require one to two more physical therapy to help regain motion and strength to the lower extremity.
CT ABDOMEN WITH CONTRAST AND CT PELVIS WITH CONTRAST,REASON FOR EXAM: , Generalized abdominal pain with swelling at the site of the ileostomy.,TECHNIQUE:,  Axial CT images of the abdomen and pelvis were obtained utilizing 100 mL of Isovue-300.,CT ABDOMEN:  ,The liver, spleen, pancreas, adrenal glands, and kidneys are unremarkable.  Punctate calcifications in the gallbladder lumen likely represent a gallstone.,CT PELVIS:  ,Postsurgical changes of a left lower quadrant ileostomy are again seen.  There is no evidence for an obstruction.  A partial colectomy and diverting ileostomy is seen within the right lower quadrant.  The previously seen 3.4 cm subcutaneous fluid collection has resolved.  Within the left lower quadrant, a 3.4 cm x 2.5 cm loculated fluid collection has not significantly changed.  This is adjacent to the anastomosis site and a pelvic abscess cannot be excluded.  No obstruction is seen.  The appendix is not clearly visualized.  The urinary bladder is unremarkable.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Resolution of the previously seen subcutaneous fluid collection.,2.  Left pelvic 3.4 cm fluid collection has not significantly changed in size or appearance.  These findings may be due to a pelvic abscess.,3.  Right lower quadrant ileostomy has not significantly changed.,4.  Cholelithiasis.
REASON FOR VISIT:,  Weight loss evaluation.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,
CHIEF COMPLAINT: , Dysphagia and hematemesis while vomiting.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , This is a 53-year-old African American female with 15 years known history of HIV and hepatitis B, and known history of compensated heart failure, COPD, who presented today with complaint of stuck food in her esophagus, bloody cough, and bloody vomiting since 4 o'clock this vomiting, when she ate eggplant parmigiana meal.  The back and chest pain is 8/10, no radiation and is constant.  She denied fever, abdominal pain, or dysphagia before current event eating bones or fish.  This is the first episode of hematemesis and feeling of globus pallidus.  In the emergency room, the patient was treated with nitropaste, morphine, and Lopressor with positive results for chest pain.  CAT scan of the chest showed diffuse esophageal dilatation with residual food in it, no mediastinal air was identified.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , The patient denied diarrhea, abdominal pain, fever, weight loss, dysphagia before this event.  Denied any exertional chest pain or shortness of breath.  No headache, limb weakness.  No joint pain or muscle ache.  No dysuria.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  ,Remarkable for:,1.  Asthma.,2.  Hepatitis C - 1995.,3.  HIV, known since 1995 and followed up by Dr. X, ABCD Medical Center, the last visit was 08/09.  The patient does not take HIV medications against medical advice.,4.  Hypertension, known since 2008.,5.  Negative PPD test, 10/08.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: , Remarkable for hysterectomy in 2001, pilonidal cyst surgery in 2005.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Mother deceased at age 68 of cirrhosis.  She had history of alcohol abuse.  Father deceased at age 45, also has a history of alcohol abuse, cardiac disease, and hypertension.,ALLERGIES: , Not known allergies.,MEDICATIONS AT HOME: , Lisinopril 5 mg daily; metoprolol 25 mg twice daily; furosemide 40 mg once daily; Isentress 400 mg once daily, the patient does not take this medication for the last 3 months; Norvir 100 mg once daily; Prezista 400 mg once daily.  The patient does not take her HIV medications for the last 2 to 3 months.  Occasionally, she takes inhalation of albuterol and Ambien 10 mg once daily.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , She is single, lives with her 21-year-old daughter, works as CNA, smokes one pack per day for the last 8 years.  She had periods when she quit smoking and started again 2-1/2 years ago.  She denied alcohol abuse and she was using cocaine in the past, last time she used cocaine 10 years ago.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , Temperature 99.8, pulse 106, respiratory rate 18, blood pressure 162/97, saturation 99 on room air.  African American female, not in acute respiratory distress, but uncomfortable, and showing some signs of back discomfort.  Oriented x3, mildly drowsy, calm and cooperative.  Eyes, EOMI, PERRLA.  Tympanic membranes normal appearance bilaterally.  External canal, no erythema or discharge.  Nose, no erythema or discharge.  Throat, dry mucous, no exudates.  No ulcers in oral area.  Full upper denture and extensive decayed lower teeth.  No cervical lymphadenopathy, no carotid bruits bilaterally.  Heart:  RRR, S1 and S2 appreciated.  No additional sounds or murmurs were auscultated.  Lung:  Good air entrance bilaterally.  No rales or rhonchi.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended.  No masses or organomegaly were palpated.  Legs:  No signs of DVT, peripheral pulses full, posterior dorsalis pedis 2+.  Skin:  No rashes or other lesions, warm and well perfused.  Nails:  No clubbing.  No other signs of skin infection.  Neurological exam:  Cranial nerves II through XII grossly intact.  No motor or sensory deficit was found.,CAT scan of the chest, which was done at 8 o'clock in the morning on 01/12/10.  Impression:  Cardiomegaly, normal aorta, large distention of esophagus containing food.  Chest x-ray:  Cardiomegaly, no evidence of CHF or pneumonia.  EKG:  Normal sinus rhythm, no signs of ischemia.,LABORATORY DATA: , Hemoglobin 10.4, hematocrit 30.6, white blood cells 7.3, neutrophils 75, platelets 197.  Sodium 140, potassium 3.1, chloride 104, bicarb 25, glucose 113, BUN 19, creatinine 1.1, GFR 55, calcium 8.8, total protein 8.1, albumin 3.1, globulin 5.0, bilirubin 0.3, alk phos 63, GOT 23, GPT 22, lipase 104, amylase 85, protime 10.2, INR 1, PTT 25.8.  Urine:  Negative for ketones, protein, glucose, blood, and nitrite, bacteria 2+.  Troponin 0.040.  BNP 1328.,PLAN:,1.  Diffuse esophageal dilatation/hematemesis.  We will put her n.p.o., we will give IV fluid, half normal saline D5 100 mL per hour.  I discussed the case with Dr. Y, gastroenterologist.  The patient planned for EGD starting today.  Differential diagnosis may include foreign body, achalasia, Candida infection, or CMV esophagitis.  We will treat according to the EGD findings.  We will give IV Nexium 40 mg daily for GI prophylaxis.  We will hold all p.o. medication.,2.  CHF.  Cardiomegaly on x-ray.  She is clinically stable.  Lungs are clear.  No radiological sign of CHF exacerbation.  We will restart lisinopril and metoprolol after EGD study will be completed.,3.  HIV - follow up by Dr. X, (ABCD Medical Center).  The last visit was on 08/08.  The patient was not taking her HIV medications for the last 3 months and does not know her CD4 number or viral load.  We will check CD4 number and viral load.  We will contact Dr. X (ID specialist in ABCD Med).,4.  Hypertension.  We will control blood pressor with Lopressor 5 mg IV p.r.n.  If blood pressure more than 160/90, we will hold metoprolol and lisinopril.,5.  Hepatitis C, known since 1995.  The patient does not take any treatment.,6.  Tobacco abuse.  The patient refused nicotine patch.,7.  GI prophylaxis as stated above; and DVT prophylaxis, compression socks.  We will restrain from using heparin or Lovenox.,ADDENDUM: , The patient was examined by Dr. Y, gastroenterologist, who ordered a CAT scan with oral contrast, which showed persistent distention of the esophagus with elementary debris within the lumen of the esophagus.  There is no evidence of leakage of the oral contrast.  There is decrease in size of periaortic soft tissue density around the descending aorta, this is associated with increase in very small left pleural effusion in the intervening time.  There is no evidence of pneumomediastinum or pneumothorax, lungs are clear, contrast is present in stomach.  After procedure, the patient had profuse vomiting with bloody content and spiked fever 102.  The patient felt relieved after vomiting.  The patient was started on aztreonam 1 g IV every 8 hours, Flagyl 500 mg IV every 8 hours.  ID consult was called and thoracic surgeon consult was ordered.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Herniated nucleus pulposus, L5-S1 on the left with severe weakness and intractable pain.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Herniated nucleus pulposus, L5-S1 on the left with severe weakness and intractable pain.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Injection for myelogram.,2.  Microscopic-assisted lumbar laminectomy with discectomy at L5-S1 on the left on 08/28/03.,BLOOD LOSS: , Approximately 25 cc.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,POSITION:,  Prone on the Jackson table.,INTRAOPERATIVE FINDINGS:,  Extruded nucleus pulposus at the level of L5-S1.,HISTORY: , This is a 34-year-old male with history of back pain with radiation into the left leg in the S1 nerve root distribution.  The patient was lifting at work on 08/27/03 and felt immediate sharp pain from his back down to the left lower extremity.  He denied any previous history of back pain or back surgeries.  Because of his intractable pain as well as severe weakness in the S1 nerve root distribution, the patient was aware of all risks as well as possible complications of this type of surgery and he has agreed to pursue on.  After an informed consent was obtained, all risks as well as complications were discussed with the patient.  ,PROCEDURE DETAIL:  ,He was wheeled back to Operating Room #5 at ABCD General Hospital on 08/28/03.  After a general anesthetic was administered, a Foley catheter was inserted.,The patient was then turned prone on the Jackson table.  All of his bony prominences were well-padded.  At this time, a myelogram was then performed.  After the lumbar spine was prepped, a #20 gauge needle was then used to perform a myelogram.  The needle was localized to the level of L3-L4 region.  Once inserted into the thecal sac, we immediately got cerebrospinal fluid through the spinal needle.  At this time, approximately 10 cc of Conray injected into the thecal sac.  The patient was then placed in the reversed Trendelenburg position in order to assist with distal migration of the contrast.  The myelogram did reveal that there was some space occupying lesion, most likely disc at the level of L5-S1 on the left.  There was a lack of space filling defect on the left evident on both the AP and the lateral projections using C-arm fluoroscopy.  At this point, the patient was then fully prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion for this procedure for a microdiscectomy.  A long spinal needle was then inserted into region of surgery on the right.  The surgery was going to be on the left.  Once the spinal needle was inserted, a localizing fluoroscopy was then used to assure appropriate location and this did confirm that we were at the L5-S1 nerve root region.  At this time, an approximately 2 cm skin incision was made over the lumbar region, dissected down to the deep lumbar fascia.  At this time, a Weitlaner was inserted.  Bovie cautery was used to obtain hemostasis.  We further continued through the deep lumbar fascia and dissected off the short lumbar muscles off of the spinous process and the lamina.  A Cobb elevator was then used to elevate subperiosteally off of all the inserting short lumbar muscles off of the spinous process as well as the lamina on the left-hand side.  At this time, a Taylor retractor was then inserted and held there for retraction.  Suction as well as Bovie cautery was used to obtain hemostasis.  At this time, a small Kerrison Rongeur was used to make a small lumbar laminotomy to expose our window for the nerve root decompression.  Once the laminotomy was performed, a small _______ curette was used to elevate the ligamentum flavum off of the thecal sac as well as the adjoining nerve roots.  Once the ligamentum flavum was removed, we immediately identified a piece of disc material floating around outside of the disc space over the S1 nerve root, which was compressive.  We removed the extruded disc with further freeing up of the S1 nerve root.  A nerve root retractor was then placed.  Identification of disc space was then performed.  A #15 blade was then inserted and small a key hole into the disc space was then performed with a #15 blade.  A small pituitary was then inserted within the disc space and more disc material was freed and removed.  The part of the annulus fibrosis were also removed in addition to the loose intranuclear pieces of disc.  Once this was performed, we removed the retraction off the nerve root and the nerve root appeared to be free with pulsatile visualization of the vasculature indicating that the nerve root was essentially free.,At this time, copious irrigation was used to irrigate the wound.  We then performed another look to see if any loose pieces of disc were extruding from the disc space and only small pieces were evident and they were then removed with the pituitary rongeur.  At this time, a small piece of Gelfoam was then used to cover the exposed nerve root.  We did not have any dural leaks during this case.  #1-0 Vicryl was then used to approximate the deep lumbar fascia, #2-0 Vicryl was used to approximate the superficial lumbar fascia, and #4-0 running Vicryl for the subcutaneous skin.  Sterile dressings were then applied.  The patient was then carefully slipped over into the supine position, extubated and transferred to Recovery in stable condition.  At this time, we are still waiting to assess the patient postoperatively to assure no neurological sequela postsurgically are found and also to assess his pain level.
REASON FOR CONSULTATION: , Thyroid mass diagnosed as papillary carcinoma.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,The patient is a 16-year-old young lady, who was referred from the Pediatric Endocrinology Department by Dr. X for evaluation and surgical recommendations regarding treatment of a mass in her thyroid, which has now been proven to be papillary carcinoma on fine needle aspiration biopsy.  The patient's parents relayed that they first noted a relatively small but noticeable mass in the middle portion of her thyroid gland about 2004.  An ultrasound examination had reportedly been done in the past and the mass is being observed.  When it began to enlarge recently, she was referred to the Pediatric Endocrinology Department and had an evaluation there.  The patient was referred for fine needle aspiration and the reports recently returned a diagnosis of papillary thyroid carcinoma.  The patient has not had any hoarseness, difficulty swallowing, or any symptoms of endocrine dysfunction.  She has no weight changes consistent with either hyper or hypothyroidism.  There is no family history of thyroid cancer in her family.  She has no notable discomfort with this lesion.  There have been no skin changes.  Historically, she does not have a history of any prior head and neck radiation or treatment of any unusual endocrinopathy.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Essentially unremarkable.  The patient has never been hospitalized in the past for any major illnesses.  She has had no prior surgical procedures.,IMMUNIZATIONS: , Current and up to date.,ALLERGIES: , She has no known drug allergies.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:  ,Currently taking no routine medications.  She describes her pain level currently as zero.,FAMILY HISTORY: , There is no significant family history, although the patient's father does note that his mother had a thyroid surgery at some point in life, but it was not known whether this was for cancer, but he suspects it might have been for goiter.  This was done in Tijuana.  His mom is from central portion of Mexico.  There is no family history of multiple endocrine neoplasia syndromes.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,The patient is a junior at Hoover High School.  She lives with her mom in Fresno.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , A careful 12-system review was completely normal except for the problems related to the thyroid mass.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  The patient is a 55.7 kg, nondysmorphic, quiet, and perhaps slightly apprehensive young lady, who was in no acute distress.  She was alert and oriented x3 and had an appropriate affect.,HEENT:  The head and neck examination is most significant.  There is mild amount of facial acne.  The patient's head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat appeared to be grossly normal.,NECK:  There is a slightly visible midline bulge in the region of the thyroid isthmus.  A firm nodule is present there, and there is also some nodularity in the right lobe of the thyroid.  This mass is relatively hard, slightly fixed, but not tethered to surrounding tissues, skin, or muscles that I can determine.  There are some shotty adenopathy in the area.  No supraclavicular nodes were noted.,CHEST:  Excursions are symmetric with good air entry.,LUNGS:  Clear.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Normal.  There is no tachycardia or murmur noted.,ABDOMEN:  Benign.,EXTREMITIES:  Extremities are anatomically correct with full range of motion.,GENITOURINARY:  External genitourinary exam was deferred at this time and can be performed later during anesthesia.  This is same as too for her rectal examination.,SKIN:  There is no acute rash, purpura, or petechiae.,NEUROLOGIC:  Normal and no focal deficits.  Her voice is strong and clear.  There is no evidence of dysphonia or vocal cord malfunction.,DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES: , I reviewed laboratory data from the Diagnostics Lab, which included a mild abnormality in the AST at 11, which is slightly lower than the normal range.  T4 and TSH levels were recorded as normal.  Free thyroxine was normal, and the serum pregnancy test was negative.  There was no level of thyroglobulin recorded on this.  A urinalysis and comprehensive metabolic panel was unremarkable.  A chest x-ray was obtained, which I personally reviewed.  There is a diffuse pattern of tiny nodules in both lungs typical of miliary metastatic disease that is often seen in patients with metastatic thyroid carcinoma.,IMPRESSION/PLAN: , The patient is a 16-year-old young lady with a history of thyroid mass that is now biopsy proven as papillary.  The pattern of miliary metastatic lesions in the chest is consistent with this diagnosis and is unfortunate in that it generally means a more advanced stage of disease.  I spent approximately 30 minutes with the patient and her family today discussing the surgical aspects of the treatment of this disease.  During this time, we talked about performing a total thyroidectomy to eradicate as much of the native thyroid tissue and remove the primary source of the cancer in anticipation of radioactive iodine therapy.  We talked about sentinel node dissection, and we spent significant amount of time talking about the possibility of hypoparathyroidism if all four of the parathyroid glands were damaged during this operation.  We also discussed the recurrent laryngeal and external laryngeal branches of the nerve supplying the vocal cord function and how they cane be damaged during the thyroidectomy as well.  I answered as many of the family's questions as they could mount during this stressful time with this recent information supplied to them.  I also did talk to them about the chest x-ray pattern, which was complete __________ as the film was just on the day prior to my clinic visit.  This will have some impact on the postoperative adjunctive therapy.  The radiologist commented about the risk of pulmonary fibrosis and the use of radioactive iodine in this situation, but it seems likely that is going to be necessary to attempt to treat this disease in the patient's case.  I did discuss with them the possibility of having to take large doses of calcium and vitamin D in the event of hypoparathyroidism if that does happen, and we also talked about possibly sparing parathyroid tissue and reimplanting it in a muscle belly either in the neck or forearm if that becomes a necessity.  All of the family's questions have been answered.  This is a very anxious and anxiety provoking time in the family.  I have made every effort to get the patient under schedule within the next 48 hours to have this operation done.  We are tentatively planning on proceeding this upcoming Friday afternoon with total thyroidectomy.
ALLOWED CONDITION: , Right shoulder sprain and right rotator cuff tear (partial).,CONTESTED CONDITION:,  AC joint arthrosis right aggravation.,DISALLOWED CONDITION: ,
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Bilateral inguinal hernia. ,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Bilateral inguinal hernia. ,PROCEDURE: , Bilateral direct inguinal hernia repair utilizing PHS system and placement of On-Q pain pump. ,ANESTHESIA: , General with endotracheal intubation. ,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was taken to the operating room and placed supine on the operating room table.  General anesthesia was administered with endotracheal intubation and the abdomen and groins were prepped and draped in standard, sterile surgical fashion.  I did an ilioinguinal nerve block on both sides, injecting Marcaine 1 fingerbreadth anterior and 1 fingerbreadth superior to the anterior superior iliac spine on both sides.
REASON FOR CONSULTATION:,  Perioperative elevated blood pressure.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,1.  Graves disease.,2.  Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, has been in normal sinus rhythm for several months, off medication.,3.  Diverticulosis.,4.  GERD.,5.  High blood pressure.,6.  Prostatic hypertrophy, status post transurethral resection of the prostate.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: , Bilateral inguinal hernia repair, right shoulder surgery with reconstruction, both shoulders rotator cuff repair, left knee arthroplasty, and transurethral resection of prostate.,HISTORY OF PRESENTING COMPLAINT:  ,This 71-year-old gentleman with the above history, underwent laser surgery for the prostate earlier today.  Before surgery, the patient's blood pressure was 181/107.  The patient received IV labetalol.  Blood pressure improved, but postsurgery, the patient's blood pressure went up again to 180/100.  Currently, blood pressure is 158/100, goes up to 155 systolic when he is talking.  On further questioning, the patient denies shortness of breath, chest pain, palpitations, or dizziness.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,CONSTITUTIONAL:  No recent fever or general malaise.,ENT:  Unremarkable.,RESPIRATORY:  No cough or shortness of breath.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  No chest pain.,GASTROINTESTINAL:  No nausea or vomiting.,GENITOURINARY:  The patient has prostatic hypertrophy, had laser surgery earlier today.,ENDOCRINE:  Negative for diabetes, but positive for Graves disease.,MEDICATIONS:  ,The patient takes Synthroid and aspirin.  Aspirin had been discontinued about 1 week ago.  He used to be on atenolol, lisinopril, and terazosin, both of which have been discontinued by his cardiologist, Dr. X several months ago.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  A 71-year-old gentleman, not in acute distress.,CHEST:  Clear to auscultation.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  First and second heart sounds were heard.  No murmur was appreciated.,ABDOMEN:  Benign.,EXTREMITIES:  There is no swelling.,NEUROLOGICAL:  The patient is alert and oriented x3.  Examination is nonfocal.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Perioperative hypertension.  We will restart lisinopril at half the previous dose.  He will be on 20 mg p.o. daily.  If blood pressure remains above systolic of 150 within 3 days, the patient should increase lisinopril to 40 mg p.o. daily.  The patient should see his primary physician, Dr. Y in 2 weeks' time.  If blood pressure, however, remains above 150 systolic despite 40 mg of lisinopril, the patient should make an appointment to see his primary physician in a week's time.,2.  Prostatic hypertrophy, status post laser surgery.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.,3.  History of Graves disease.,4.  History of atrial fibrillation.  The patient is in normal sinus rhythm.,DISPOSITION:  ,The patient is stable to be discharged to home.  Nurse should observe for 1 hour after lisinopril to make sure the blood pressure does not go too low.
REASON FOR CONSULT:, Anxiety.,CHIEF COMPLAINT:,  "I felt anxious yesterday.",HPI:,  A 69-year-old white female with a history of metastatic breast cancer, depression, anxiety, recent UTI, and obstructive uropathy, admitted to the ABCD Hospital on February 6, 2007, for lightheadedness, weakness, and shortness of breath.  The patient was consulted by Psychiatry for anxiety.  I know this patient from a previous consult.  During this recent admission, the patient has experienced anxiety and had a panic attack yesterday with "syncopal episodes."  She was given Ativan 0.25 mg on a p.r.n. basis with relief after one to two hours.  The patient was seen by Abc, MD, and Def, Ph.D.  The laboratories were reviewed and were positive for UTI, and anemia is also present.  The TSH level was within normal limits.  She previously responded well to trazodone for depression, poor appetite, and decreased sleep and anxiety.  A low dose of Klonopin was also helpful for sedation.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Metastatic breast cancer to bone.  The patient also has a history of hypertension, hypothyroidism, recurrent UTI secondary to obstruction of left ureteropelvic junction, cholelithiasis, chronic renal insufficiency, Port-A-Cath placement, and hydronephrosis.,PAST PSYCHIATRIC HISTORY:,  The patient has a history of depression and anxiety.  She was taking Remeron 15 mg q.h.s., Ambien 5 mg q.h.s. on a p.r.n. basis, Ativan 0.25 mg every 6 hours on a p.r.n. basis, and Klonopin 0.25 mg at night while she was at home.,FAMILY HISTORY:,  There is a family history of colorectal cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, cardiac disease, and Alzheimer disease in the family.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  The patient is married and lives at home with her husband.  She has a history of smoking one pack per day for 18 years.  The patient quit in 1967.  According to the chart, the patient also drinks wine everyday for the last 50 years, usually one to two drinks per day.,MEDICATIONS:,1.  Klonopin 0.25 mg p.o. every evening.,2.  Fluconazole 200 mg p.o. daily.,3.  Synthroid 125 mcg p.o. everyday.,4.  Remeron 15 mg p.o. at bedtime.,5.  Ceftriaxone IV 1 g in 1/2 NS every 24 hours.,P.R.N. MEDICATIONS:,1.  Tylenol 650 mg p.o. every 4 hours.,2.  Klonopin 0.5 mg p.o. every 8 hours.,3.  Promethazine 12.5 mg every 4 hours.,4.  Ambien 5 mg p.o. at bedtime.,ALLERGIES:,No known drug allergies,LABORATORY DATA:,These laboratories were done on February 6,2007, sodium 137, potassium 3.9, chloride 106, bicarbonate 21, BUN 35, creatinine 1.5, glucose 90.  White blood cell 5.31, hemoglobin 11.2, hematocrit 34.7, platelet count 152000.  TSH level 0.88.  The urinalysis was positive for UTI.,MENTAL STATUS EXAMINATION:,GENERAL APPEARANCE:  The patient is dressed in a hospital gown.  She is lying in bed during the interview.  She is well groomed with good hygiene.,MOTOR ACTIVITY:  No psychomotor retardation or agitation noted.  Good eye contact.,ATTITUDE:  Pleasant and cooperative.,ATTENTION AND CONCENTRATION:  Normal.  The patient does not appear to be distracted during the interview.,MOOD:  Okay.,AFFECT:  Mood congruent normal affect.,THOUGHT PROCESS:  Logical and goal directed.,THOUGHT CONTENT:  No delusions noted.,PERCEPTION:  Did not assess.,MEMORY:  Not tested.,SENSORIUM:  Alert.,JUDGMENT:  Good.,INSIGHT:  Good.,IMPRESSION:,1.  AXIS I:  Possibly major depression or generalized anxiety disorder.,2.  AXIS II:  Deferred.,3.  AXIS III:  Breast cancer with metastasis, hydronephrosis secondary to chronic uteropelvic junction obstruction status post stent placement, hypothyroidism.,4.  AXIS IV:  Interpersonal stressors.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Recurrent re-infected sebaceous cyst of abdomen.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Abscess secondary to retained foreign body.,2.  Incisional hernia.,PROCEDURES,1.  Excision of abscess, removal of foreign body.,2.  Repair of incisional hernia.,ANESTHESIA: , LMA.,INDICATIONS: , Patient is a pleasant 37-year-old gentleman who has had multiple procedures including a laparotomy related to trauma.  The patient has had a recurrently infected cyst of his mass at the superior aspect of his incision, which he says gets larger and then it drains internally, causing him to be quite ill.  He presented to my office and I recommended that he undergo exploration of this area and removal.  The procedure, purpose, risks, expected benefits, potential complications, and alternative forms of therapy were discussed with him and he was agreeable to surgery.,FINDINGS:,  The patient was found upon excision of the cyst that it contained a large Prolene suture, which is multiply knotted as it always is; beneath this was a very small incisional hernia, the hernia cavity, which contained omentum; the hernia was easily repaired.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , The patient was identified, then taken into the operating room, where after induction of an LMA anesthetic, his abdomen was prepped with Betadine solution and draped in sterile fashion.  The puncta of the wound lesion was infiltrated with methylene blue and peroxide.  The lesion was excised and the existing scar was excised using an ellipse and using a tenotomy scissors, the cyst was excised down to its base.  In doing so, we identified a large Prolene suture within the wound and followed this cyst down to its base at which time we found that it contained omentum and was in fact overlying a small incisional hernia.  The cyst was removed in its entirety, divided from the omentum using a Metzenbaum and tying with 2-0 silk ties.  The hernia repair was undertaken with interrupted 0 Vicryl suture with simple sutures.  The wound was then irrigated and closed with 3-0 Vicryl subcutaneous and 4-0 Vicryl subcuticular and Steri-Strips.  Patient tolerated the procedure well.  Dressings were applied and he was taken to recovery room in stable condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Fractured right fifth metatarsal.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Fractured right fifth metatarsal.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Open reduction and internal screw fixation right fifth metatarsal.,2.  Application of short leg splint.,ANESTHESIA:,  TIVA/local.,HISTORY: , This 32-year-old female presents to Preoperative Holding Area after keeping herself n.p.o., since mid night for open reduction and internal fixation of a fractured right fifth metatarsal.  The patient relates that approximately in mid-June that she was working as a machinist at Detroit Diesel and dropped a large set of tools on her right foot.  She continued to walk on the foot and found nothing was wrong despite the pain.  She was recently seen by Dr. X and was referred to Dr. Y for surgery.  The risks versus benefits of the procedure had been explained to the patient in detail by Dr. Y.  The consent is available on the chart for review.  The urine beta was taken in the preoperative area and was negative.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:  ,After IV was established by the Department of Anesthesia, the patient was taken to the operating room via cart and placed on the operating table in the supine position.  A safety strap was placed across her waist for her protection.  Copious amounts of Webril were applied about the right ankle and a pneumatic ankle tourniquet was applied.  After adequate IV sedation was administered by the Department of Anesthesia, a total of 10 cc of 0.5% Marcaine plain was used to perform an infiltrative type block to the right fifth metatarsal area of the right foot.  Next, the foot was prepped and draped in the usual aseptic fashion.  An Esmarch bandage was used to exsanguinate the foot and the pneumatic ankle tourniquet was elevated to 250 mmHg.  The foot was lowered in the operative field and a sterile stocking was reflected.  Attention was directed to the right fifth metatarsal base.  The Xi-scan and fluoroscopic unit was used to visualize the fractured fifth metatarsal.  An avulsion fracture of the right fifth metatarsal base was visualized.  The fracture was linear in nature from distal lateral to proximal medial.  There appeared to be a pseudoarthrosis on the lateral view.  A skin scrub was used to carefully mark out all the landmarks including the peroneus longus and brevis tendons in the fifth metatarsal and the sural nerve.  A linear incision was created with a #10 blade.  A #15 blade was used to deepen the incision through the subcutaneous tissue.  All small veins traversing the subcutaneous tissue were ligated with electrocautery.  Next, using combination of sharp and blunt dissection, the deep fascia was reached.  Next a linear capsuloperiosteal incision was made down to the bone using a #15 blade.  Next, using a periosteal elevator and a #15 blade, the capsuloperiosteal tissues were stripped from the bone.  The fracture site was not clearly visualized due to bony callus.  A #25 gauge needle was introduced into the fracture site under fluoroscopy.  The fracture site was easily found.  An osteotome was used to separate the pseudoarthrosis.,A curette was used to remove the hypertrophic excessive pseudoarthrotic bone.  Next, a small ball burr was used to resect the remaining hypertrophic bone.  Next, a #1.0 drill bit was used to drill the subchondral bone on either side of the fracture site and a good healthy bleeding bone.  Next, a bone clamp was applied and the fracture was reduced.  Next, a threaded K-wire was thrown from the proximal base of the fifth metatarsal across the fracture site distally.  A #4-0 mm Synthes partially threaded, cannulated 50 mm screw was thrown using standard AO technique from the proximal fifth metatarsal base down the shaft and the fracture site was fixated rigidly.  All this was done under fluoroscopy.  Next, the wound was flushed with copious amounts of sterile saline.  The fracture site was found to have rigid compression.  The hypertrophic bone on the lateral aspect of the metatarsal was reduced with a ball burr and the wound was again flushed.  Next, the capsuloperiosteal tissues were closed with #3-0 Vicryl in a simple interrupted fashion.  A few fibers of the peroneus brevis tendon that were stripped from the base of the proximal phalanx were reattached carefully with Vicryl.  Next, the subcutaneous layer was closed with #4-0 Vicryl in a simple interrupted suture technique.  Next, the skin was closed with #5-0 Prolene in a horizontal mattress technique.  A postoperative fluoroscopic x-ray was taken and the bony alignment was found to be intact and the screw placement had excellent appearance.  A dressing consisting of Owen silk, 4x4s, fluff, and Kerlix were applied.,A sterile stockinet was applied over the foot.  Next, copious amounts of Webril were applied to pad all bony prominences.  The pneumatic ankle tourniquet was released and immediate hyperemic flush was noted to all digits.  Next, 4-inch, pre-moulded, well-padded posterior splint was applied.  The capillary refill time of the digits was less than three seconds.  The patient tolerated the above anesthesia and procedure without complications.  After anesthesia was reversed, she was transported via cart to the Postanesthesia Care Unit with vital signs stable and vascular status intact to the right foot.  She was given Vicodin 5/500 mg #30 1-2 p.o. q.4-6h. p.r.n., pain, Naprosyn 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.c., Keflex 500 mg #30 one p.o. t.i.d., till gone.  She was given standard postoperative instructions to be non-weightbearing and was dispensed with crutches.  She will rest, ice, and elevate her right leg.  She is to follow up in the clinic on 08/26/03 at 10:30 a.m..  She was given emergency contact numbers and will call or return if problems arise earlier.
1.  Pelvic tumor.,2.  Cystocele.,3.  Rectocele.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Degenerated joint.,2.  Uterine fibroid.,3.  Cystocele.,4.  Rectocele.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:  ,1.  Total abdominal hysterectomy.,2.  Bilateral salpingooophorectomy.,3.  Repair of bladder laceration.,4.  Appendectomy.,5.  Marshall-Marchetti-Krantz cystourethropexy.,6.  Posterior colpoperineoplasty.,GROSS FINDINGS:  The patient had a history of a rapidly growing mass on the abdomen, extending from the pelvis over the past two to three months.  She had a recent D&C and laparoscopy, and enlarged mass was noted and could not be determined if it was from the ovary or the uterus.  Curettings were negative for malignancy.  The patient did have a large cystocele and rectocele, and a collapsed anterior and posterior vaginal wall.,Upon laparotomy, there was a giant uterine tumor extending from the pelvis up to the above the umbilicus compatible with approximately four to five-month pregnancy.  The ovaries appeared to be within normal limits.  There was marked adherence between the bladder and the giant uterus and mass with edema and inflammation, and during dissection, a laceration inadvertently occurred and it was immediately recognized.  No other pathology noted from the abdominal cavity or adhesions.  The upper right quadrant of the abdomen compatible with a previous gallbladder surgery.  The appendix is in its normal anatomic position.  The ileum was within normal limits with no Meckel's diverticulum seen and no other gross pathology evident.  There was no evidence of metastasis or tumors in the left lobe of the liver.,Upon frozen section, diagnosis of initial and partial is that of a degenerating uterine fibroid rather than a malignancy.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE:  The patient was taken to the Operating Room, prepped and draped in the low lithotomy position under general anesthesia.  A midline incision was made around the umbilicus down to the lower abdomen.  With a #10 Bard Parker blade knife, the incision was carried down through the fascia.  The fascia was incised in the midline, muscle fibers were splint in the midline, the peritoneum was grasped with hemostats and with a #10 Bard Parker blade after incision was made with Mayo scissors.  A Balfour retractor was placed into the wound.  This giant uterus was soft and compatible with a possible leiomyosarcoma or degenerating fibroid was handled with care.  The infundibular ligament on the right side was isolated and ligated with #0 Vicryl suture brought to an avascular area, doubly clamped and divided from the ovary and the ligament again re-ligated with #0 Vicryl suture.  The right round ligament was ligated with #0 Vicryl suture, brought to an avascular space within the broad ligament and divided from the uterus.  The infundibulopelvic ligament on the left side was treated in a similar fashion as well as the round ligament.  An attempt was made to dissect the bladder flap from the anterior surface of the uterus and this was remarkably edematous and difficult to do, and during dissection the bladder was inadvertently entered.  After this was immediately recognized, the bladder flap was wiped away from the anterior surface of the uterus.  The bladder was then repaired with a running locking stitch #0 Vicryl suture incorporating serosal muscularis mucosa and then the second layer of overlapping seromuscular sutures were used to make a two-layer closure of #0 Vicryl suture.  After removing the uterus, the bladder was tested with approximately 400 cc of sterile water and there appeared to be no leak.  Progressing and removing of the uterus was then carried out and the broad ligament was clamped bilaterally with a straight Ochsner forceps and divided from the uterus with Mayo scissors, and the straight Ochsner was placed by #0 Vicryl suture thus controlling the uterine blood supply.  The cardinal ligaments containing the cervical blood supply was serially clamped bilaterally with a curved Ochsner forceps, divided from the uterus with #10 Bard Parker blade knife and a curved Ochsner was placed by #0 Vicryl suture.  The cervix was again grasped with a Lahey tenaculum and pubovesicocervical ligament was entered and was divided using #10 Bard Parker blade knife and then the vaginal vault and with a double pointed sharp scissors.  A single-toothed tenaculum was placed on the cervix and then the uterus was removed from the vagina using hysterectomy scissors.  The vaginal cuff was then closed using a running #0 Vicryl suture in locking stitch incorporating all layers of the vagina, the cardinal ligaments of the lateral aspect and uterosacral ligaments on the posterior aspect.  The round ligaments were approximated to the vaginal cuff with #0 Vicryl suture and the bladder flap approximated to the round ligaments with #000 Vicryl suture.  The ______ was re-peritonealized with #000 Vicryl suture and then the cecum brought into the incision.  The pelvis was irrigated with approximately 500 cc of water.  The appendix was grasped with Babcock forceps.  The mesoappendix was doubly clamped with curved hemostats and divided with Metzenbaum scissors.  The curved hemostats were placed with #00 Vicryl suture.  The base of the appendix was ligated with #0 plain gut suture, doubly clamped and divided from the distal appendix with #10 Bard Parker blade knife, and the base inverted with a pursestring suture with #00 Vicryl.  No bleeding was noted.  Sponge, instrument, and needle counts were found to be correct.  All packs and retractors were removed.  The peritoneum muscle fascia was closed in single-layer closure using running looped #1 PDS, but prior to closure, a Marshall-Marchetti-Krantz cystourethropexy was carried out by dissecting the space of Retzius identifying the urethra in the vesical junction approximating the periurethral connective tissue to the symphysis pubis with interrupted #0 Vicryl suture.  Following this, the abdominal wall was closed as previously described and the skin was closed using skin staples.  Attention was then turned to the vagina, where the introitus of the vagina was grasped with an Allis forceps at the level of the Bartholin glands.  An incision was made between the mucous and the cutaneous junction and then a midline incision was made at the posterior vaginal mucosa in a tunneling fashion with Metzenbaum scissors.  The flaps were created bilaterally by making an incision in the posterior connective tissue of the vagina and wiping the rectum away from the posterior vaginal mucosa, and flaps were created bilaterally.  In this fashion, the rectocele was reduced and the levator ani muscles were approximated in the midline with interrupted #0 Vicryl suture.  Excess vaginal mucosa was excised and the vaginal mucosa closed with running #00 Vicryl suture.  The bulbocavernosus and transverse perinei muscles were approximated in the midline with interrupted #00 Vicryl suture.  The skin was closed with a running #000 plain gut subcuticular stitch.  The vaginal vault was packed with a Betadine-soaked Kling gauze sponge.  Sterile dressing was applied.  The patient was sent to recovery room in stable condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Left spermatocele.,2.  Family planning.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Left spermatocele.,2.  Family planning.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Left spermatocelectomy/epididymectomy.,2.  Bilateral partial vasectomy.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:,  Minimal.,SPECIMEN: , Left-sided spermatocele, epididymis, and bilateral partial vasectomy.,DISPOSITION:  ,To PACU in stable condition.,INDICATIONS AND FINDINGS: , This is a 48-year-old male with a history of a large left-sided spermatocele with significant discomfort.  The patient also has family status complete and desired infertility.  The patient was scheduled for elective left spermatocelectomy and bilateral partial vasectomy.,FINDINGS: , At this time of the surgery, significant left-sided spermatocele was noted encompassing almost the entirety of the left epididymis with only minimal amount of normal appearing epididymis remaining.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:,  After informed consent was obtained, the patient was moved to the operating room.  A general anesthesia was induced by the Department of Anesthesia.,The patient was prepped and draped in the normal sterile fashion for a scrotal approach.  A #15 blade was used to make a transverse incision on the left hemiscrotum.  Electrocautery was used to carry the incision down into the tunica vaginalis and the testicle was delivered into the field.  The left testicle was examined.  A large spermatocele was noted.  Metzenbaum scissors were used to dissect the tissue around the left spermatocele.  Once the spermatocele was identified, as stated above, significant size was noted encompassing the entire left epididymis.  Metzenbaum scissors as well as electrocautery was used to dissect free the spermatocele from its testicular attachments and spermatocelectomy and left epididymectomy was completed with electrocautery.  Electrocautery was used to confirm excellent hemostasis.  Attention was then turned to the more proximal aspect of the cord.  The vas deferens was palpated and dissected free with Metzenbaum scissors.  Hemostats were placed on the two aspects of the cord, approximately 1 cm segment of cord was removed with Metzenbaum scissors and electrocautery was used to cauterize the lumen of the both ends of vas deferens and silk ties used to ligate the cut ends.  Testicle was placed back in the scrotum in appropriate anatomic position.  The dartos tissue was closed with running #3-0 Vicryl and the skin was closed in a horizontal interrupted mattress fashion with #4-0 chromic.  Attention was then turned to the right side.  The vas was palpated in the scrotum.  A small skin incision was made with a #15 blade and the vas was grasped with a small Allis clamp and brought into the surgical field.  A scalpel was used to excise the vas sheath and vas was freed from its attachments and grasped again with a hemostat.  Two ends were hemostated with hemostats and divided with Metzenbaum scissors.  Lumen was coagulated with electrocautery.  Silk ties used to ligate both cut ends of the vas deferens and placed back into the scrotum.  A #4-0 chromic suture was used in simple fashion to reapproximate the skin incision.  Scrotum was cleaned and bacitracin ointment, sterile dressing, fluffs, and supportive briefs applied.  The patient was sent to Recovery in stable condition.  He was given prescriptions for doxycycline 100 mg b.i.d., for five days and Vicodin ES 1 p.o. q.4h. p.r.n., pain, #30 for pain.  The patient is to followup with Dr. X in seven days.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Right lateral base of tongue lesion, probable cancer.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Right lateral base of tongue lesion, probable cancer.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:  ,Excisional biopsy with primary closure of a 4 mm right lateral base of tongue lesion.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,FINDINGS: , An ulceration in the right lateral base of tongue region.  This was completely excised.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:,  Less than 5 mL.,FLUIDS: , Crystalloid only.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,DRAINS:,  None.,CONDITION:,  Stable.,PROCEDURE:  ,The patient placed supine in position under general anesthesia.  First a Sweetheart gag was placed in the patient's mouth and the mouth was elevated.  The lesion in the tongue could be seen.  Then, it was injected with 1% lidocaine and 1:100,00 epinephrine.  After 5 minutes of waiting, then an elliptical incision was made around this mass with electrocautery and then it was sharply dissected off the muscular layer and removed in total.  Suction cautery was used for hemostasis.  Then, 3 simple interrupted #4-0 Vicryl sutures were used to close the wound and procedure was then terminated at that time.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  ,Urinary hesitancy and weak stream.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Urinary hesitancy and weak stream.,2.  Urethral narrowing.,3.  Mild posterior wall erythema.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Cystourethroscopy.,2.  Urethral dilation.,3.  Bladder biopsy and fulguration.,ANESTHESIA:  ,General.,SPECIMEN:  ,Urine culture sensitivity and cytology and bladder biopsy x1.,DISPOSITION: , To PACU in stable condition.,INDICATIONS AND FINDINGS:  ,This is a 76-year-old female with history of weak stream and history of intermittent catheterization secondary to hypotonic bladder in the past, last cystoscopy approximately two years ago.,FINDINGS AT TIME OF SURGERY:,  Cystourethroscopy revealed some mild narrowing of the urethra, which was easily dilated to #23 French.  A midureteral polyp was noted.  Cystoscopy revealed multiple cellules and mild trabeculation of the bladder.  Posterior wall revealed some mild erythema with some distorted architecture of the bladder mucosa.  No obvious raised bladder tumor was noted.  No foreign bodies were noted.  The ureteral orifices were noted on the trigone just proximal to the bladder neck.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , After informed consent was obtained, the patient was moved to the operating room, general anesthesia was induced by the Department of Anesthesia.  The patient was prepped and draped in normal sterile fashion and urethral sounds used to dilate the urethra to accommodate #23 French cystoscope.  Cystoscopy was performed in its entirety with the above findings.  The small area of erythema on the posterior wall was biopsied using a flexible biopsy forceps and Bovie cautery was used to cauterize and fulgurate this area.  The bladder was drained, cystoscope was removed, scope was reinserted and bladder was again reexamined.  No evidence of active bleeding noted.  The bladder was drained, cystoscope was removed, and the patient was cleaned and sent to recovery room in stable condition to followup with Dr. X in two weeks.  She is given prescription for Levaquin and Pyridium and given discharge instructions.
REASON FOR CONSULTATION: , I was asked by Dr. X to see the patient in consultation for a new diagnosis of colon cancer.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  The patient presented to medical attention after she noticed mild abdominal cramping in February 2007.  At that time, she was pregnant and was unsure if her symptoms might have been due to the pregnancy.  Unfortunately, she had miscarriage at about seven weeks.  She again had abdominal cramping, severe, in late March 2007.  She underwent colonoscopy on 04/30/2007 by Dr. Y.  Of note, she is with a family history of early colon cancers and had her first colonoscopy at age 35 and no polyps were seen at that time.,On colonoscopy, she was found to have a near-obstructing lesion at the splenic flexure.  She was not able to have the scope passed past this lesion.  Pathology showed a colon cancer, although I do not have a copy of that report at this time.,She had surgical resection done yesterday.  The surgery was laparoscopic assisted with anastomosis.  At the time of surgery, lymph nodes were palpable.,Pathology showed colon adenocarcinoma, low grade, measuring 3.8 x 1.7 cm, circumferential and invading in to the subserosal mucosa greater than 5 mm, 13 lymph nodes were negative for metastasis.  There was no angiolymphatic invasion noted.  Radial margin was 0.1 mm.  Other margins were 5 and 6 mm.  Testing for microsatellite instability is still pending.,Staging has already been done with a CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis.  This showed a mass at the splenic flexure, mildly enlarged lymph nodes there, and no evidence of metastasis to liver, lungs, or other organs.  The degenerative changes were noted at L5-S1.  The ovaries were normal.  An intrauterine device (IUD) was present in the uterus.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  She has otherwise been feeling well.  She has not had fevers, night sweats, or noticed lymphadenopathy.  She has not had cough, shortness of breath, back pain, bone pain, blood in her stool, melena, or change in stool caliber.  She was eating well up until the time of her surgery.  She is up-to-date on mammography, which will be due again in June.  She has no history of pulmonary, cardiac, renal, hepatic, thyroid, or central nervous system (CNS) disease.,ALLERGIES: , PENICILLIN, WHICH CAUSED HIVES WHEN SHE WAS A CHILD.,MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION:,  None.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , No significant medical problem.  She has had three miscarriages, all of them at about seven weeks.  She has no prior surgeries.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,She smoked cigarettes socially while in her 20s.  A pack of cigarettes would last for more than a week.  She does not smoke now.  She has two glasses of wine per day, both red and white wine.  She is married and has no children.  An IUD was recently placed.  She works as an esthetician.,FAMILY HISTORY:  ,Father died of stage IV colon cancer at age 45.  This occurred when the patient was young and she is not sure of the rest of the paternal family history.  She does believe that aunts and uncles on that side may have died early.  Her brother died of pancreas cancer at age 44.  Another brother is aged 52 and he had polyps on colonoscopy a couple of years ago.  Otherwise, he has no medical problem.  Mother is aged 82 and healthy.  She was recently diagnosed with hemochromatosis.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , ,GENERAL:  She is in no acute distress.,VITAL SIGNS:  The patient is afebrile with a pulse of 78, respirations 16, blood pressure 124/70, and pulse oximetry is 93% on 3 L of oxygen by nasal cannula.,SKIN:  Warm and dry.  She has no jaundice.,LYMPHATICS:  No cervical or supraclavicular lymph nodes are palpable.,LUNGS:  There is no respiratory distress.,CARDIAC:  Regular rate.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and mildly tender.  Dressings are clean and dry.,EXTREMITIES:  No peripheral edema is noted.  Sequential compression devices (SCDs) are in place.,LABORATORY DATA:,  White blood count of 11.7, hemoglobin 12.8, hematocrit 37.8, platelets 408, differential shows left shift, MCV is 99.6.  Sodium is 136, potassium 4.1, bicarb 25, chloride 104, BUN 5, creatinine 0.7, and glucose is 133.  Calcium is 8.8 and magnesium is 1.8.,IMPRESSION AND PLAN: , Newly diagnosed stage II colon cancer, with a stage T3c, N0, M0 colon cancer, grade 1.  She does not have high-risk factors such as high grade or angiolymphatic invasion, and adequate number of lymph nodes were sampled.  Although, the tumor was near obstructing, she was not having symptoms and in fact was having normal bowel movements.,A lengthy discussion was held with the patient regarding her diagnosis and prognosis.  Firstly, she has a good prognosis for being cured without adjuvant therapy.  I would consider her borderline for chemotherapy given her young age.  Referring to the database that had been online, she has a 13% chance of relapse in the next five years, and with aggressive chemotherapy (X-linked agammaglobulinemia (XLA) platinum-based), this would be reduced to an 8% risk of relapse with a 5% benefit.  Chemotherapy with 5-FU based regimen would have a smaller benefit of around 2.5%.,Plan was made to allow her to recuperate and then meet with her and her husband to discuss the pros and cons of adjuvant chemotherapy including what regimen she could consider including the side effects.  We did not review all that information today.,She has a family history of early colon cancer.  Her mother will be visiting in the weekend and plan is to obtain the rest of the paternal family history if we can.  Tumor is being tested for microsatellite instability and we will discuss this when those results are available.  She has one sibling and he is up-to-date on colonoscopy.  She does report multiple tubes of blood were drawn prior to her admission.  I will check with Dr. Y's office whether she has had a CEA and liver-associated enzymes assessed.  If not, those can be drawn tomorrow.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Facial and neck skin ptosis.  Cheek, neck, and jowl lipotosis. Facial rhytides.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Same.,PROCEDURE: , Temporal cheek-neck facelift (CPT 15825).  Submental suction assisted lipectomy (CPT 15876).,ANESTHESIA: , General.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , This patient is a 65-year-old female who has progressive aging changes of the face and neck.  The patient demonstrates the deformities described above and has requested surgical correction.  The procedure, risks, limitations, and alternatives in this individual case have been very carefully discussed with the patient.  The patient has consented to surgery.,The patient was brought into the operating room and placed in the supine position on the operating table.  An intravenous line was started and anesthesia was maintained throughout the case.  The patient was monitored for cardiac, blood pressure, and oxygen saturation continuously.,The hair was prepared and secured with rubber bands and micropore tape along the incision line.  A marking pen had been used to outline the area of the incisions, which included the preauricular area to the level of the tragus, the post-tragal region, the post auricular region and into the hairline.  In addition, the incision was marked in the temporal area in the event of a temporal lift, then across the coronal scalp for the forehead lift.  The incision was marked in the submental crease for the submental lipectomy and liposuction.  The incision in the post auricular area extended up on the posterior aspect of the ear and ended near the occipital hairline.,The areas to be operated on were injected with 1% Lidocaine containing 1:100,000 Epinephrine.  This provided local anesthesia and vasoconstriction.  The total of Lidocaine used throughout the procedure was maintained at no more than 500mg.,SUBMENTAL SUCTION ASSISTED LIPECTOMY: , The incision was made, as previously outlined, in the submental crease in a transverse direction, through the skin and subcutaneous tissue, and hemostasis was obtained with bipolar cautery.  A Metzenbaum scissors was used to elevate the area in the submental region for about 2 or 3cm and making radial tunnels from the angle of the mandible all the way to the next angle of the mandible.  4mm liopsuction cannula was then introduced along these previously outlined tunnels into the jowl on both sides and down top the anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid laterally and just past the thyroid notch interiorly.  The tunnels were enlarged with a 6mm flat liposuction cannula.,Then with the Wells-Johnson liposuction machine 27-29 inches of underwater mercury suction was accomplished in all tunnels.  Care was taken not to turn the opening of the suction cannula up to the dermis, but it was rotated in and out taking a symmetrical amount of fat from each area.  A similar procedure was performed with the 4 mm cannula cleaning the area.  Bilateral areas were palpated for symmetry, and any remaining fat was then suctioned directly.,A triangular wedge of anterior platysma border was cauterized and excised at the cervical mental angle.  A plication stitch of 3-0 Vicryl was placed.,When a satisfactory visible result had been accomplished from the liposuction, the inferior flap was then advanced over anteriorly and the overlying skin excised in an incremental fashion.  5-0 plain catgut was used for closure in a running interlocking fashion.  The wound was cleaned at the end, dried, and Mastisol applied.  Then tan micropore tape was placed for support to the entire area.,FACE LIFT: , After waiting approximately 10-15 minutes for adequate vasoconstriction the post auricular incision was started at the earlobe and continued up on the posterior aspect of the ear for approximately 2cm just superior to the external auditory canal.  A gentle curve was then made, and again the incision was carried down to and into the posterior hairline paralleling the hair follicles and directed posteriorly towards the occipital region.  A preauricular incision was carried into the natural crease superior to the tragus, curved posterior to the tragus bilaterally then brought out inferiorly in the natural crease between the lobule and preauricular skin.  The incision was made in the temporal area beveling parallel with the hair follicles.  (The incision had been designed with curve underneath the sideburn in order to maintain the sideburn hair locations and then curved posteriorly.),The plane of dissection in the hairbearing area was kept deep to the roots of the hair follicles and superficial to the fascia of the temporalis muscle and sternocleidomastoid.  The dissection over the temporalis muscle was continued anteriorly towards the anterior hairline and underneath the frontalis to the supraorbital rim.  At the superior level of the zygoma and at the level of the sideburn, dissection was brought more superficially in order to avoid the nerves and vessels in the areas, specifically the frontalis branch of the facial nerve.,The facial flaps were then elevated with both blunt and sharp dissection with the Kahn facelift dissecting scissors in the post auricular region to pass the angle of the mandible.  This area of undermining was connected with an area of undermining starting with the temporal region extending in the preauricular area of the cheek out to the jowl.  Great care was taken to direct the plane of dissecting superficial to the parotid fascia or SMAS.  The entire dissection was carried in a radial fashion from the ear for approximately 4cm at the lateral canthal area to 8-10cm in the neck region.  When the areas of dissection had been connected carefully, hemostasis was obtained and all areas inspected.  At no point were muscle fibers or major vessels or nerves encountered in the dissection.,The SMAS was sharply incised in a semilunar fashion in front of the ear and in front of the anterior border of the SCM.  The SMAS flap was then advanced posteriorly and superiorly.  The SMAS was split at the level of the earlobe, and the inferior portion was sutured to the mastoid periosteum.  The excess SMAS was trimmed and excised from the portion anterior to the auricle.  The SMAS was then imbricated with 2-0 Surgidak interrupted sutures.,The area was then inspected for any bleeding points and careful hemostasis obtained.  The flaps were then rotated and advanced posteriorly and then superiorly, and incremental cuts were made and the suspension points in the pre and post auricular area were done with 2-0 Tycron suture.  The excess and redundant amount of skin were then excised and trimmed cautiously so as not to cause any downward pull on the ear lobule or any stretching of the scars in the healing period.  Skin closure was accomplished in the hairbearing areas with 5-0 Nylon in the preauricular tuft and 4-0 Nylon interrupted in the post auricular area.  The pre auricular area was closed first with 5-0 Dexon at the ear lobules, and 6-0 Nylon at the lobules, and 5-0 plain catgut in a running interlocking fashion.  5-0 Plain catgut was used in the post auricular area as well, leaving ample room for serosanguinous drainage into the dressing.  The post tragal incisin was closed with interrupted and running interlocking 5-0 plain catgut.  The exact similar procedure was repeated on the left side.,At the end of this procedure, all flaps were inspected for adequate capillary filling or any evidence of hematoma formation.  Any small amount of fluid was expressed post-auricularly.  A fully perforated bulb suction drain was placed under the flap and exited posterior to the hairline on each side prior to the suture closure.  A Bacitracin impregnated nonstick dressing was cut to conform to the pre and post auricular area and placed over the incision lines.,ABD padding over 4X4 gauze was used to cover the pre and post auricular areas.  This was wrapped around the head in a vertical circumferential fashion and anchored with white micropore tape in a non-constricting but secured fashion.  The entire dressing complex was secured with a pre-formed elastic stretch wrap device.  All branches of the facial nerve were checked and appeared to be functioning normally.,The procedures were completed without complication and tolerated well.  The patient left the operating room in satisfactory condition.  A follow-up appointment was scheduled, routine post-op medications prescribed, and post-op instructions given to the responsible party.,The patient was released to home in satisfactory condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Visually significant cataract, left eye.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Visually significant cataract, left eye.,ANESTHESIA: , Topical/MAC.,PROCEDURE: , Phacoemulsification cataract extraction with intraocular lens implantation, left eye (Alcon AcrySof, SN60AT, 23.0 D, serial #***).,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,INDICATIONS FOR SURGERY:  ,The patient is a 74-year-old woman with complaints of painless progressive loss of vision in her left eye.  She was found to have a visually-significant cataract and, after discussion of the risks, benefits and alternatives to surgery, she elected to proceed with cataract extraction and lens implantation in this eye in efforts to improve her vision.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:  ,The patient was verified in the preoperative holding area and the informed consent was reviewed and verified to be on the chart.  They were transported to the operative suite, accompanied by the anesthesia service, where appropriate cardiopulmonary monitoring was established.  MAC anesthesia was achieved, which was followed by topical anesthesia using 1% preservative-free tetracaine eye drops.  The patient was prepped and draped in the usual fashion for sterile ophthalmic surgery and a lid speculum was placed.,Two stab-incision paracenteses were made in the cornea using the MVR blade, and the anterior chamber was irrigated with 1% preservative-free lidocaine for intracameral anesthesia.  The anterior chamber was filled with viscoelastic and a shelved, temporal, clear corneal incision was made using the diamond groove knife and steel keratome.  A continuous curvilinear capsulorrhexis was made in the anterior capsule using the bent-needle cystotome.  The lens nucleus was hydrodissected and hydrodelineated using balanced saline solution (BSS) on a Chang cannula until it rotated freely.,The phacoemulsification handpiece was introduced into the anterior chamber, and the lens nucleus was sculpted into 2 halves.  Each half was further subdivided with chopping and removed with phacoemulsification.  The remaining cortical material was removed with the irrigation and aspiration (I&A) handpiece.  The capsular bag was inflated with viscoelastic and the intraocular lens was injected into the capsule without difficulty.  The remaining viscoelastic was removed with the I&A handpiece, and the anterior chamber was filled to an appropriate intraocular pressure with BSS.  The corneal wounds were hydrated and verified to be water-tight.  Antibiotic ointment was placed, followed by a patch and shield.  The patient was transported to the PACU in good/stable condition.  There were no complications.  Followup is scheduled for tomorrow morning in the eye clinic.,A single interrupted 10-0 nylon suture was placed through the inferotemporal paracentesis to ensure that it was watertight at the end of the case.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Pregnancy at 40 weeks.,2.  Failure to progress.,3.  Premature prolonged rupture of membranes.,4.  Group B strep colonization.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,1.  Pregnancy at 40 weeks.,2.  Failure to progress.,3.  Premature prolonged rupture of membranes.,4.  Group B strep colonization.,5.  Delivery of viable male neonate.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Primary low transverse cesarean section via Pfannenstiel incision.,ANESTHESIA:  ,Spinal.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , 1000 cc.,FLUID REPLACEMENT: , 2700 cc crystalloid.,URINE:,  500 cc clear yellow urine in the Foley catheter.,INTRAOPERATIVE FINDINGS:  ,Normal appearing uterus, tubes, and ovaries.  A viable male neonate with Apgars of 9 and 9 at 1 and 5 minutes respectively.  Infant weight equaled to 4140 gm with clear amniotic fluid.  The umbilical cord was wrapped around the leg tightly x1.  Infant was in a vertex, right occiput anterior position.,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE:  ,The patient is a 19-year-old G1 P0 at 41 and 1/7th weeks' intrauterine pregnancy.  She presented at mid night on 08/22/03 complaining of spontaneous rupture of membranes, which was confirmed in Labor and Delivery.  The patient had a positive group beta strep colonization culture and was started on penicillin.  The patient was also started on Pitocin protocol at that time.  The patient was monitored throughout the morning showing some irregular contractions every 5 to 6 minutes and then eventually no contractions on the monitor.  IUPC was placed without difficulty and contractions appeared to be regular, however, they were inadequate amount of the daily units.  The patient was given a rest from the Pitocin.  She walked and had a short shower.  The patient was then placed back on Pitocin with IUPC in place and we were unable to achieve adequate contractions.  Maximum cervical dilation was 5 cm, 80% effaced, negative 2 station, and cephalic position.  At the time of C-section, the patient had been ruptured for over 24 hours and it was determined that she would not progress in her cervical dilation, as there was suspected macrosomia on ultrasound.  Options were discussed with the patient and family and it was determined that we will take her for C-section today.  Consent was signed.  All questions were answered with Dr. X present.,PROCEDURE: , The patient was taken to the operative suite where a spinal anesthetic was placed.  She was placed in the dorsal supine position with left upward tilt.  She was prepped and draped in the normal sterile fashion and her spinal anesthetic was found to adequate.  A Pfannenstiel incision was made with a first scalpel and carried through the underlying layer of fascia with a second scalpel.  The fascia was incised in the midline and extended laterally using curved Mayo scissors.  The superior aspect of the fascial incision was grasped with Ochsner and Kocher clamps and elevated off the rectus muscles.  Attention was then turned to the inferior aspect of the incision where Kocher clamps were used to elevate the fascia off the underlying rectus muscle.  The rectus muscle was separated in the midline bluntly.  The underlying peritoneum was tented up with Allis clamps and incised using Metzenbaum scissors.  The peritoneum was then bluntly stretched.  The bladder blade was placed.  The vesicouterine peritoneum was identified, tented up with Allis' and entered sharply with Metzenbaum scissors.  The incision was extended laterally and the bladder flap created digitally.  The bladder blade was then reinserted in the lower uterine segment.  A low transverse uterine incision was made with a second scalpel.  The uterine incision was extended laterally bluntly.  The bladder blade was removed and the infant's head was delivered with the assistance of a vacuum.  Infant's nose and mouth were bulb suctioned and the body was delivered atraumatically.  There was, of note, an umbilical cord around the leg tightly x1.,Cord was clamped and cut.  Infant was handed to the waiting pediatrician.  Cord gas was sent for pH as well as blood typing.  The placenta was manually removed and the uterus was exteriorized and cleared of all clots and debris.  The uterine incision was grasped circumferentially with Alfred clamps and closed with #0-Chromic in a running locked fashion.  A second layer of imbricating stitch was performed using #0-Chromic suture to obtain excellent hemostasis.  The uterus was returned to the abdomen.  The gutters were cleared of all clots and debris.  The rectus muscle was loosely approximated with #0-Vicryl suture in a single interrupted fashion.  The fascia was reapproximated with #0-Vicryl suture in a running fashion.  The subcutaneous Scarpa's fascia was then closed with #2-0 plain gut.  The skin was then closed with staples.  The incision was dressed with sterile dressing and bandage.  Blood clots were evacuated from the vagina.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  The sponge, lap, and needle counts were correct x2.  The mother was taken to the recovery room in stable and satisfactory condition.
TITLE OF PROCEDURE,Creation of AV fistula, left wrist in the anatomic snuffbox.,PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS,End-stage renal disease, need for chronic access.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS,End-stage renal disease, need for chronic access.,INDICATION OF THE PROCEDURE,This 74-year-old lady was referred by Dr. P for placement of an AV fistula.  She has been on dialysis since December 2006 by a PermCath placed in her right internal jugular vein.  She undergoes dialysis on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at DaVita in Alameda and is under the care of Dr. P.  She underwent coronary bypass surgery in 2000 and her cardiologist is Dr. T.  She lives with her husband and she also has a son at home and she is a very active lady.  She is right handed.  The plan was to place an AV fistula at the left wrist.  The risks and benefits were fully explained to her.  She elected to proceed as planned.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL,In the operating room, under monitored anesthesia care with intravenous sedation, she was prepped and draped surgically.  Lidocaine 1% was used for local anesthesia in the anatomic snuffbox at the left wrist.  The cephalic vein was exposed.  The superficial branch of the radial artery was carefully protected and the radial artery was exposed.  There was moderate calcification of the radial artery.,The patient was heparinized and end-to-side anastomosis was performed between the cephalic vein and radial artery using a 7-0 Prolene suture.  There was an excellent Doppler signal in the cephalic vein all the way up the arm upon completion.,The wound was closed using absorbable suture and she was transferred to Recovery.  There were no complications.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Cholelithiasis; possible choledocholithiasis.
ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS: , Encephalopathy related to normal-pressure hydrocephalus.,CHIEF COMPLAINT:,  Diminished function secondary to above.,HISTORY:  ,This pleasant gentleman was recently admitted to ABCD Medical Center and followed by the neurosurgical staff, including Dr. X, where normal-pressure hydrocephalus was diagnosed.  He had a shunt placed and was stabilized medically.  He has gotten a return of function to the legs and was started on some early therapy.  Significant functional limitations have been identified and ongoing by the rehab admission team.  Significant functional limitations have been ongoing.  He will need to be near-independent at home for periods of time, and he is brought in now for rehabilitation to further address functional issues, maximize skills and safety and allow a safe disposition home.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Positive for prostate cancer, intermittent urinary incontinence and left hip replacement.,ALLERGIES: , No known drug allergies.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS,1.  Tylenol as needed.  ,2.  Peri-Colace b.i.d.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  He is a nonsmoker and nondrinker.  Prior boxer.  He lives in a home where he would need to be independent during the day.  Family  relatives intermittently available.  Goal is to return home to an independent fashion to that home setting.,FUNCTIONAL HISTORY: , Prior to admission was independent with activities of daily living and ambulatory skills.  Presently, he has resumed therapies and noted to have supervision levels for most activities of daily living.  Memory at minimal assist.  Walking at supervision., REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  ,Negative for headaches, nausea, vomiting, fevers, chills, shortness of breath or chest pain currently.  He has had some dyscoordination recently and headaches on a daily basis, most days, although the Tylenol does seem to control that pain.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  The patient is afebrile with vital signs stable.,HEENT:  Oropharynx clear, extraocular muscles are intact.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular rate and rhythm, without murmurs, rubs or gallops.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,ABDOMEN:  Nontender, nondistended,  positive bowel sounds.,EXTREMITIES:  Without clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  The calves are soft and nontender bilaterally.,NEUROLOGIC:  No focal, motor or sensory losses through the lower extremities.  He moves upper and lower extremities well.  Bulk and tone normal in the upper and lower extremities.  Cognitively showing intact with appropriate receptive and expressive skills.,IMPRESSION ,
PROCEDURES:,1.  Release of ventral chordee.,2.  Circumcision.,3.  Repair of partial duplication of urethral meatus.,INDICATIONS: , The patient is an 11-month-old baby boy who presented for evaluation of a duplicated urethral meatus as well as ventral chordee and dorsal prepuce hooding.  He is here electively for surgical correction.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , The patient was brought back into operating room 35.  After successful induction of general endotracheal anesthetic, giving the patient, preoperative antibiotics and after completing a preoperative time out, the patient was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.,A holding stitch was placed in the glans penis.  At this point, we probed both urethral meatus.  Using the Crede maneuver, we could see urine clearly coming out of the lower, the more ventral meatus.  At this point, we cannulated this with a 6-French hypospadias catheter.  We attempted to cannulate the dorsal opening, however, we were unsuccessful.  We then attempted to place lacrimal probes and were also unsuccessful indicating this was incomplete duplication.  At this point, we identified the band connecting both the urethral meatus and incised it with tenotomy scissors.  We sutured both meatus together such that there was one meatus at the normal position at the tip of the glans.,At this point, we made a circumcising incision around the penis and degloved the penis in its entirety relieving all chordee.  Once all the chordee had been adequately released, we turned our attention to the circumcision.  Excessive dorsal foreskin was removed from the skin and glans.  Mucosal cuts were reapproximated with interrupted 5-0 chromic suture.  Dermabond was placed over this and bacitracin was placed on this once dry.  This ended the procedure.  ,DRAINS:,  None.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Minimal.,URINE OUTPUT:  ,Unrecorded.,COMPLICATIONS: , None apparent.,DISPOSITION:  ,The patient will now go under the care of Dr. XYZ, Plastic Surgery, for excision of scalp hemangioma.
EXAM:  ,CT maxillofacial for trauma.,FINDINGS: , CT examination of the maxillofacial bones was performed without contrast.  Coronal reconstructions were obtained for better anatomical localization.,There is normal appearance to the orbital rims.  The ethmoid, sphenoid, and frontal sinuses are clear.  There is polypoid mucosal thickening involving the floor of the maxillary sinuses bilaterally.  There is soft tissue or fluid opacification of the ostiomeatal complexes bilaterally.  The nasal bones appear intact.  The zygomatic arches are intact.  The temporomandibular joints are intact and demonstrate no dislocations or significant degenerative changes.  The mandible and maxilla are intact.  There is soft tissue swelling seen involving the right cheek.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Mucosal thickening versus mucous retention cyst involving the maxillary sinuses bilaterally.  There is also soft tissue or fluid opacification of the ostiomeatal complexes bilaterally.,2.  Mild soft tissue swelling about the right cheek.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Prior history of polyps.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Small polyps, no evidence of residual or recurrent polyp in the cecum.,PREMEDICATIONS: , Versed 5 mg, Demerol 100 mg IV.,REPORTED PROCEDURE:,  The rectal chamber revealed no external lesions.  Prostate was normal in size and consistency.,The colonoscope was inserted into the rectal ampulla and advanced under direct vision at all times until the tip of the scope was placed in the cecum.  The position of the scope within the cecum was verified by identification of the ileocecal valve.  Navigation was difficult because it seemed that the cecum took an upward turn at its final turn, but the examination was completed.,The cecum was extensively studied and no lesion was seen.  There was not even a scar representing the prior polyp.  I was able to see the area across from the ileocecal valve exactly where the polyp was two years ago, and I saw no lesion at all.  The scope was then slowly withdrawn.  In the mid transverse colon, was a small submucosal lesion, which appeared to be a lipoma.  It was freely mobile and very small with normal overlying mucosa.  There was a similar lesion in the descending colon.  Both of these appeared to be lipomatous, so no attempt was made to remove them.  There were diverticula present in the sigmoid colon.  In addition, there were two polyps in the sigmoid colon both of which were resected using electrocautery.  There was no bleeding.  The scope was then withdrawn.  The rectum was normal.  When the scope was retroflexed in the rectum, two very small polyps were noted just at the anorectal margin, and so these were obliterated using the electrocautery snare.  There was no specimen and there was no bleeding.  The scope was then straightened, withdrawn, and the procedure terminated.,ENDOSCOPIC IMPRESSION:,1.  Small polyps, sigmoid colon, resected them.,2.  Diverticulosis, sigmoid colon.,3.  Small rectal polyps, obliterated them.,4.  Submucosal lesions, consistent with lipomata as described.,5.  No evidence of residual or recurrent neoplasm in the cecum.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Nasopharyngeal mass.,2.  Right upper lid skin lesion.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Nasopharyngeal tube mass.,2.  Right upper lid skin lesion.,PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,1.  Functional endoscopic sinus surgery.,2.  Excision of nasopharyngeal mass via endoscopic technique.,3.  Excision of right upper lid skin lesion 1 cm in diameter with adjacent tissue transfer closure.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Less than 30 cc.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: , The patient is a 51-year-old Caucasian female with a history of a nasopharyngeal mass discovered with patient's chief complaint of nasal congestion and chronic ear disease.  The patient had a fiberoptic nasopharyngoscopy performed in the office which demonstrated the mass and confirmed also on CT scan.  The patient also has had this right upper lid skin lesion which appears to be a cholesterol granuloma for numerous months.  It appears to be growing in size and is irregularly bordered.  After risks, complications, consequences, and questions were addressed to the patient, a written consent was obtained for the procedure.,PROCEDURE: , The patient was brought to the operating suite by Anesthesia and placed on the operating table in supine position.  After this, the patient was turned to 90 degrees by the Department of Anesthesia.  The right upper eyelid skin lesion was injected with 1% lidocaine with epinephrine 1:100,000 approximately 1 cc total.  After this, the patient's bilateral nasal passages were then packed with cocaine-soaked cottonoids of 10% solution of 4 cc total.  The patient was then prepped and draped in usual sterile fashion and the right upper lid skin was then first cut around the skin lesion utilizing a Superblade.  After this, the skin lesion was then grasped with a ________ in the  superior aspect and the skin lesion was cut and removed in the subcutaneous plane utilizing Westcott scissors.  After this, the ________ was then hemostatically controlled with monopolar cauterization.  The patient's skin was then reapproximated with a running #6-0 Prolene suture.  A Mastisol along with a single Steri-Strip was in place followed Maxitrol ointment.  Attention then was drawn to the nasopharynx.  The cocaine-soaked cottonoids were removed from the nasal passages bilaterally and zero-degree otoscope was placed all the way to the patient's nasopharynx.  The patient had a severely deviated nasal septum more so to the right than the left.  There appeared to be a spur on the left inferior aspect and also on the right posterior aspect.  The nasopharyngeal mass appeared polypoid in nature almost lymphoid tissue looking.  It was then localized with 1% lidocaine with epinephrine 1:100,000 of approximately 3 cc total.  After this, the lesion was then removed on the right side with the XPS blade.  The torus tubarius was noted on the left side with the polypoid lymphoid tissue involving this area completely.  This area was taken down with the XPS blade.  Prior to taking down this lesion with the XPS, multiple biopsies were taken with a straight biter.  After this, a cocaine-soaked cottonoid was placed back in the patient's left nasal passage region and the nasopharynx and the attention was then drawn to the right side.  The zero-degree otoscope was placed in the patient's right nasal passage and all the way to the nasopharynx.  Again, the XPS was then utilized to take down the nasopharyngeal mass in its entirety with some involvement overlying the torus tubarius.  After this, the patient was then hemostatically controlled with suctioned Bovie cauterization.  A FloSeal was then placed followed by bilateral Merocels and bacitracin-coated ointment.  The patient's Meroceles were then tied together to the patient's forehead and the patient was then turned back to the Anesthesia.  The patient was extubated in the operating room and was transferred to the recovery room in stable condition.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and sent home and with instructions to followup approximately in one week.  The patient will be sent home with a prescription for Keflex 500 mg one p.o. b.i.d, and Tylenol #3 one to two p.o. q.4-6h. pain #30.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Acute appendicitis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Perforated Meckel's diverticulum.,PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,1.  Diagnostic laparotomy.,2.  Exploratory laparotomy.,3.  Meckel's diverticulectomy.,4.  Open incidental appendectomy.,5.  Peritoneal toilet.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:  ,300 ml.,URINE OUTPUT: , 200 ml.,TOTAL FLUID:,  1600 mL.,DRAIN:,  JP x1 right lower quadrant and anterior to the rectum.,TUBES:,  Include an NG and a Foley catheter.,SPECIMENS: , Include Meckel's diverticulum and appendix.,COMPLICATIONS: , Ventilator-dependent respiratory failure with hypoxemia following closure.,BRIEF HISTORY: , This is a 45-year-old Caucasian gentleman presented to ABCD General Hospital with acute onset of right lower quadrant pain that began 24 hours prior to this evaluation.,The pain was very vague and progressed in intensity.  The patient has had anorexia with decrease in appetite.  His physical examination revealed the patient to be febrile with the temperature of 102.4.  He had right lower quadrant and suprapubic tenderness with palpation with Rovsing sign and rebound consistent with acute surgical abdomen.  The patient was presumed acute appendicitis and was placed on IV antibiotics and recommended that he undergo diagnostic laparoscopy with possible open exploratory laparotomy.  He was explained the risks, benefits, and complications of the procedure and gave informed consent to proceed.,OPERATIVE FINDINGS: , Diagnostic laparoscopy revealed purulent drainage within the region of the right lower quadrant adjacent to the cecum and terminal ileum.  There was large amounts of purulent drainage.  The appendix was visualized, however, it was difficult to be visualized secondary to the acute inflammatory process, purulent drainage, and edema.  It was decided given the signs of perforation and purulent drainage within the abdomen that we would convert to an open exploratory laparotomy.  Upon exploration of the ileum, there was noted to be a ruptured Meckel's diverticulum, this was resected.  Additionally, the appendix appeared normal without evidence of perforation and/or edema and a decision to proceed with incidental appendectomy was performed.  The patient was irrigated with copious amounts of warmth normal saline approximately 2 to 3 liters.  The patient was closed and did develop some hypoxemia after closure.  He remained ventilated and was placed on a large amount of ________.  His hypoxia did resolve and he remained intubated and proceed to the Critical Care Complex or postop surgical care.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE:,  The patient was brought to the operative suite and placed in the supine position.  He did receive preoperative IV antibiotics, sequential compression devices, NG tube placement with Foley catheter, and heparin subcutaneously.  The patient was intubated by the Anesthesia Department.  After adequate anesthesia was obtained, the abdomen was prepped and draped in the normal sterile fashion with Betadine solution.  Utilizing a #10 blade scalpel, an infraumbilical incision was created.  The Veress needle was inserted into the abdomen.  The abdomen was insufflated to approximately 15 mmHg.  A #10 mm ablated trocar was inserted into the abdomen and a video laparoscope was inserted and the abdomen was explored and the above findings were noted.  A right upper quadrant 5 mm port was inserted to help with manipulation of bowel and to visualize the appendix.  Decision was then made to convert to exploratory laparotomy given the signs of acute perforation.  The instruments were then removed.  The abdomen was then deflated.  Utilizing ________ #10 blade scalpel, a midline incision was created from the xiphoid down to level of the pubic symphysis.,The incision was carried down with a #10 blade scalpel and the bleeding was controlled along the way with electrocautery.  The posterior layer of the rectus fascia and peritoneum was opened carefully with the scissors as the peritoneum had already been penetrated during laparoscopy.  Incision was carried down to the midline within the linea alba.  Once the abdomen was opened, there was noted to be gross purulent drainage.  The ileum was explored and there was noted to be a perforated Meckel's diverticulum.  Decision to resect the diverticulum was performed.,The blood supply to the Meckel's diverticulum was carefully dissected free and a #3-0 Vicryl was used to tie off the blood supply to the Meckel's diverticulum.  Clamps were placed to the proximal supply to the Meckel's diverticulum was tied off with #3-0 Vicryl sutures.  The Meckel's diverticulum was noted to be completely free and was grasped anteriorly and utilizing a GIA stapling device, the diverticulum was transected.  There was noted to be a hemostatic region within the transection and staple line looked intact without evidence of perforation and/or leakage.  Next, decision was decided to go ahead and perform an appendectomy.  Mesoappendix was doubly clamped with hemostats and cut with Metzenbaum scissors.  The appendiceal artery was identified and was clamped between two hemostats and transected as well.  Once the appendix was completely freed of the surrounding inflammation and adhesion.  A plain gut was placed at the base of the appendix and tied down.  The appendix was milked distally with a straight stat and clamped approximately halfway.  A second piece of plain gut suture was used to ligate above and then was transected with a #10 blade scalpel.  The appendiceal stump was then inverted with a pursestring suture of #2-0 Vicryl suture.  Once the ________ was completed, decision to place a JP drain within the right lower quadrant was performed.  The drain was positioned within the right lower quadrant and anterior to the rectum and brought out through a separate site in the anterior abdominal wall.  It was sewn in place with a #3-0 nylon suture.  The abdomen was then irrigated with copious amounts of warmed normal saline.  The remainder of the abdomen was unremarkable for pathology.  The omentum was replaced over the bowel contents and utilizing #1-0 PDS suture, the abdominal wall, anterior and posterior rectus fascias were closed with a running suture.  Once the abdomen was completely closed, the subcutaneous tissue was irrigated with copious amounts of saline and the incision was closed with staples.  The previous laparoscopic sites were also closed with staples.  Sterile dressings were placed over the wound with Adaptic and 4x4s and covered with ABDs.  JPs replaced with bulb suction.  NG tube and Foley catheter were left in place.  The patient tolerated this procedure well with exception of hypoxemia which resolved by the conclusion of the case.,The patient will proceed to the Critical Care Complex where he will be closely evaluated and followed in his postoperative course.  To remain on IV antibiotics and we will manage ventilatory-dependency of the patient.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Hallux abductovalgus, right foot.,2.  Hammer toe, right foot, second, third, fourth and fifth toes.,3.  Tailor's bunionette, right foot.,4.  Degenerative joint disease, right first metatarsophalangeal joint.,5.  Rheumatoid arthritis.,6.  Contracted fourth right metatarsophalangeal joint.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Hallux abductovalgus, right foot.,2.  Hammer toe, right foot, second, third, fourth and fifth toes.,3.  Tailor's bunionette, right foot.,4.  Degenerative joint disease, right first metatarsophalangeal joint.,5.  Rheumatoid arthritis.,6.  Contracted fourth right metatarsophalangeal joint.,PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,1.  Bunionectomy, right foot with Biopro hemi implant, right first metatarsophalangeal joint.,2.  Arthrodesis, right second, third, and fourth toes with external rod fixation.,3.  Hammertoe repair, right fifth toe.,4.  Extensor tenotomy and capsulotomy, right fourth metatarsophalangeal joint.,5.  Modified Tailor's bunionectomy, right fifth metatarsal.,ANESTHESIA:,  TIVA/local.,HISTORY:,  This 51-year-old female presented to ABCD preoperative holding area after keeping herself NPO since mid night for surgery on her painful right foot bunion, hammer toes, and Tailor's bunion.  The patient has a long history of crippling severe rheumatoid arthritis.  She has pain with shoe gear and pain with every step.  She has tried multiple conservative measures under Dr. X's supervision consisting of wide shoe's and accommodative padding all which have provided inadequate relief.  At this time, she desires attempted surgical reconstruction/correction.  The consent is available on the chart for review and the risks versus benefits of this procedure have been discussed with patient in detail by Dr. X.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , After IV was established by the Department of Anesthesia, the patient was taken to the operating room via cart and placed on the operating table in a supine position and a safety strap was placed across her waist for her protection.  Next, copious amounts of Webril were applied about the right ankle and a pneumatic ankle tourniquet was applied over the Webril.  Next, after adequate IV sedation was administered by the Department of Anesthesia, a total of 20 cc of 1:1 mixture of 0.5% Marcaine plain and 1% lidocaine were instilled into the right foot using a standard ankle block technique.  Next, the foot was prepped and draped in the usual aseptic fashion.  An Esmarch bandage was used to exsanguinate the foot and the pneumatic ankle tourniquet was elevated to 230 mmHg.  The foot was lowered in the operative field.  The sterile stockinette was reflected and attention was directed to the right first metatarsophalangeal joint.  The joint was found to be severely contracted with lateral deviation of the hallux with a slightly overlapping contracted second toe.  In addition, the range of motion was less than 5 degrees of the first ray.  There was medial pinch callus and callus on the plantar right second metatarsal.  Using a #10 blade, a linear incision over the first metatarsophalangeal joint was then created approximately 4 cm in length.  Next, a #15 blade was used to deepen the incision to the subcutaneous tissue all which was found to be very thin taking care to protect the medial neurovascular bundle and the lateral extensor hallucis longus tendon.  Any small vein traversing the operative site were clamped with hemostat and ligated with electrocautery.  Next, the medial and lateral wound margins were undermined with sharp dissection.  The joint capsule was then visualized.  Two apparent soft tissue masses probably consistent with rheumatoid nodules were found at the distal medial aspect of the first metatarsal capsule.  A dorsal linear incision to the capsular tissue down to bone was performed with a #15 blade.  The capsule and periosteal tissues were elevated sharply off the metatarsal head and the base of proximal  phalanx.,A large amount of hypertrophic synovium was encountered over the metatarsophalangeal joint.  In addition, multiple hypertrophic exostosis were found dorsally, medially, and laterally over the metatarsal.  Upon entering the joint, the base of the proximal phalanx was grossly deformed and the medial and lateral aspect were widely flared and encompassing the metatarsal head.  A sagittal saw was used to carefully remove the base of the proximal phalanx just distal to the metaphyseal flare.  Next, the bone was passed out as specimen.  The head of the metatarsal had evidence of erosion and eburnation.  The tibial sesamoid was practically absent, but was found to be a conglomeration of hypertrophic synovium and poorly differentiated appearing exostosis and bony tissue.  This was hindering the range of motion of the joint and was removed.  The fibular sesamoid was in the interspace.  A lateral release was performed in addition.  Next, the McGlamry elevators were inserted into the first metatarsal head and all of the plantar adhesions were freed.  The metatarsal head was remodeled with a sagittal saw and all of the medial eminence the dorsal and lateral hypertropic bone was removed and the metatarsal head was shaped into more acceptable contoured structure.  Next, the Biopro sizer was used and it was found that a median large implant would be the best fit for this patient's joint.  A small drill hole was made in the central aspect at the base of the proximal phalanx.  The trial sizer median large was placed in the joint and an excellent fit and increased range of motion was observed.,Next, the joint was flushed with copious amounts of saline.  A median large porous Biopro implant was inserted using the standard technique and was tapped with the mallet into position.  It had an excellent fit and the range of motion again was markedly increased from the preoperative level.  Next, the wound was again flushed with copious amounts of saline.  The flexor tendon was inspected and was found to be intact plantarly.  A #3-0 Vicryl was used to close the capsule in a running fashion.  A medial capsulorrhaphy performed and the toe assumed to more rectus position and the joint was more congruous.  Next, the subcutaneous layer was closed with #4-0 Vicryl in a simple interrupted technique.  Next, the skin was closed with #5-0 Monocryl in a running subcuticular fashion.,Attention was directed to the right second toe, which was found to be markedly contracted and rigid in nature.  There was a clavus in the dorsal aspect of the head of the proximal phalanx noted.  A linear incision was made over the proximal phalanx approximately 2 cm in length.  The incision was deepened with #15 blade down to the subcutaneous tissue.  Next, the medial and lateral aspects of the wound were undermined with sharp dissection taking care to protect the neurovascular structures.,Next, after identifying the extensor expansion and long extensor tendon, a #15 blade was used to transect the tendon at the level of the joint.  The tendon was peeled off sharply, proximally, and distally.  The medial and lateral collateral ligaments were released and the head of the proximal phalanx was delivered into the wound.  The bone was found to be extremely soft in the toe joints and the head of the proximal phalanx was oddly shaped and the cartilage was eroded.  The base of the middle phalanx, however, had a normal-appearing cartilage.  A sagittal saw was used to transect the head of the proximal phalanx just proximal to metaphyseal flare.  Next, the base of the middle phalanx was also resected.  A 0.045 inch Kirschner wire was retrograded out at the end of the toe and then back through the residual proximal phalanx shaft.  The toe assumed a straight and markedly increased straight position.  An extensor hood resection was performed to assist in keeping the proximal phalanx plantar flexed.  The joint was flushed with copious amounts of saline.  A #3-0 Vicryl was used to reapproximate the tendon after arthrodesis.  A #4-0 nylon was used to close the skin with a combination of simple interrupted and horizontal mattress suture technique.  The wire was cut, capped, and bent in the usual fashion.,Attention was directed to the right third toe where an exact same procedure as performed in the second digit was repeated.  The same suture material was used and the same 0.045 Kirschner wire was used for external wire fixation.,Attention was directed to the right fourth toe with exact same procedure was repeated.  The same suture material was used.  However, a 0.062 Kirschner wire was used to fixate the arthrodesis site as the bone was very soft and a 0.045 Kirschner wire was attempted but was found to be slipping in the soft bone and was inadequately holding the arthrodesis site tight.  Next, attention was directed to the fifth digit, which was found to be contracted as well.  A linear incision was made over the proximal phalanx with a #10 blade approximately 2 cm in length.  A #15 blade was used to deepen the incision to the subcutaneous tissue down to the level of the long extensor tendon, which was identified and transected.  The medial and lateral collateral ligaments were transected and the head of the proximal phalanx was delivered into the wound.  A sagittal saw was used to resect the head of the proximal phalanx just proximal to metaphyseal flare.  The toe assumed to more rectus position.  The reciprocating rasp was used to smooth the all bony surfaces.  The joint was again flushed with saline.  Next, the long extensor tendon was reapproximated with #3-0 Vicryl in a simple interrupted technique.  The skin was closed with #4-0 nylon in a simple interrupted technique.,Next, attention was directed to the fifth metatarsal head, which was found to have a lateral exostosis and bursa under the skin.  A #10 blade was used to make a 2.5 cm dorsal incision over the fifth metatarsal head.  The incision was deepened with a #15 blade to the subcutaneous tissue.  Any small vein traversing subcutaneous layer were ligated with electrocautery.  Care was taken to avoid abductor digiti minimi tendon and extensor digitorum longus tendon respectively.  Next, the dorsal linear capsular incision was made down to the bone with a #15 blade.  The capsular and periosteal tissues were elevated off the bone with a #15 blade and the metatarsal head was delivered into the wound.  Hypertrophic bone was noted to be found dorsally and laterally as well as plantarly.  A sagittal saw was used to resect all hypertrophic bone.  A reciprocating rasp was used to smooth all bony surfaces.  Next, the wound was flushed with copious amounts of saline.  The capsular and periosteal tissues wee closed with #3-0 Vicryl in a simple interrupted technique.  Next, the subcutaneous layer was closed with #4-0 Vicryl in a simple interrupted technique.  A bursa which was found consisting of a white glistening hypertrophic synovium was removed and sent as specimen as was also found in two of the second and third digit in the above procedures.  The skin was closed with #5-0 Monocryl in a running subcuticular fashion.  The ______ was reinforced with horizontal mattress sutures with #5-0 Monocryl.  Attention was directed to the fourth metatarsophalangeal joint where the joint was found to be contracted and the proximal phalanx was still found to be elevated.  Therefore, a #15 blade was used to make a stab incision over the joint lateral to the extensor digitorum longus tendon.  The tendon was transected.  Next, a blade was inserted in the dorsal, medial, and lateral aspects of the metatarsophalangeal joint and tenotomy was performed.  Next, the proximal phalanx residual bone was plantar flexed and found to assume a more rectus position.  One #4-0 nylon suture was placed in the skin.,Mastisol tape was applied to the first metatarsal and fifth metatarsal postoperative wounds.  Betadine-soaked Owen silk was applied to all wounds.  Betadine-soaked 4 x 4 splints were applied to all toes.  The pneumatic ankle tourniquet was released and immediate hyperemic flush was noted to all digits.  All the wires have previously been bent and cut and all were capped.  A standard postoperative consisting of 4x4s, Kling, Kerlix, and Coban were applied.  The patient tolerated the above anesthesia and procedure without complications.  She was transported via cart to the Postanesthesia Care Unit with vital signs stable and vascular status intact.  She was given prescription for Tylenol #3, #40 one to two p.o. q.4-6h. p.r.n. pain and Naprosyn 375 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.c.  She is to continue her rheumatoid arthritis drugs preoperatively prescribed by the rheumatologist.,She is to follow up with Dr. X in the office.  She was given emergency contact numbers and standard postoperative instructions.  She was given Darco OrthoWedge shoe and a pair of crutches.  She was discharged in stable condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Cervical spondylotic myelopathy with cord compression and cervical spondylosis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Cervical spondylotic myelopathy with cord compression and cervical spondylosis.  In addition to this, he had a large herniated disk at C3-C4 in the midline.,PROCEDURE: , Anterior cervical discectomy fusion C3-C4 and C4-C5 using operating microscope and the ABC titanium plates fixation with bone black bone procedure.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient placed in the supine position, the neck was prepped and draped in the usual fashion.  Incision was made in the midline the anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid at the level of C4.  Skin, subcutaneous tissue, and vertebral muscles divided longitudinally in the direction of the fibers and the trachea and esophagus was retracted medially.  The carotid sheath was retracted laterally after dissecting the longus colli muscle away from the vertebral osteophytes we could see very large osteophytes at C4-C5.  It appeared that the C5-C6 disk area had fused spontaneously.  We then confirmed that position by taking intraoperative x-rays and then proceeded to do discectomy and fusion at C3-C4, C4-C5.,After placing distraction screws and self-retaining retractors with the teeth beneath the bellies of the longus colli muscles, we then meticulously removed the disk at C3-C4, C4-C5 using the combination of angled strip, pituitary rongeurs, and curettes after we had incised the anulus fibrosus with #15 blade.,Next step was to totally decompress the spinal cord using the operating microscope and high-speed cutting followed by the diamond drill with constant irrigation.  We then drilled off the uncovertebral osteophytes and midline osteophytes as well as thinning out the posterior longitudinal ligaments.  This was then removed with 2-mm Kerrison rongeur.  After we removed the posterior longitudinal ligament, we could see the dura pulsating nicely.  We did foraminotomies at C3-C4 as well as C4-C5 as well.  After having totally decompressed both the cord as well as the nerve roots of C3-C4, C4-C5, we proceeded to the next step, which was a fusion.,We sized two 8-mm cortical cancellous grafts and after distracting the bone at C3-C4, C4-C5, we gently tapped the grafts into place.  The distraction was removed and the grafts were now within.  We went to the next step for the procedure, which was the instrumentation and stabilization of the fused area.,We then placed a titanium ABC plate from C3-C5, secured it with 16-mm titanium screws.  X-rays showed good position of the screws end plate.,The next step was to place Jackson-Pratt drain to the vertebral fascia.  Meticulous hemostasis was obtained.  The wound was closed in layers using 2-0 Vicryl for the subcutaneous tissue.  Steri-Strips were used for skin closure.  Blood loss less than about 200 mL.  No complications of the surgery.  Needle counts, sponge count, and cottonoid count was correct.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Prostate cancer.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Prostate cancer.,OPERATIONS: , Brachytherapy, iodine-125 seed implantation, and cystoscopy.,ANESTHESIA:,  LMA.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Minimal.,Total number of seeds placed, 63.  Needles, 24.,BRIEF HISTORY OF THE PATIENT: , This is a 57-year-old male who was seen by us for elevated PSA.  The patient had a prostate biopsy with T2b disease, Gleason 6.  Options such as watchful waiting, robotic prostatectomy, seed implantation with and without radiation were discussed.  Risks of anesthesia, bleeding, infection, pain, MI, DVT, PE, incontinence, rectal dysfunction, voiding issues, burning pain, unexpected complications such as fistula, rectal injury, urgency, frequency, bladder issues, need for chronic Foley for six months, etc., were discussed.  The patient understood all the risks, benefits, and options, and wanted to proceed with the procedure.  The patient was told that there could be other unexpected complications.  The patient has history of urethral stricture.  The patient was told about the risk of worsening of the stricture with radiation.  Consent was obtained.,DETAILS OF THE OPERATION: , The patient was brought to the OR.  Anesthesia was applied.  The patient was placed in the dorsal lithotomy position.  The patient had SCDs on.  The patient was given preop antibiotics.  The patient had done bowel prep the day before.  Transrectal ultrasound was performed.  The prostate was measured at about 32 gm.  The images were transmitted to the computer system for radiation oncologist to determine the dosing etc.  Based on the computer analysis, the grid was placed.  Careful attention was drawn to keep the grid away from the patient.  There was a centimeter distance between the skin and the grid.  Under ultrasound guidance, the needles were placed, first in the periphery of the prostate, a total of 63 seeds were placed throughout the prostate.  A total of 24 needles was used.  Careful attention was drawn to stay away from the urethra.  Under longitudinal ultrasound guidance, all the seeds were placed.  There were no seeds visualized in the bladder under ultrasound.  There was only one needle where the seeds kind of dragged as the needle was coming out on the left side and were dropped out of position.  Other than that, all the seeds were very well distributed throughout the prostate under fluoroscopy.  Please note that the Foley catheter was in place throughout the procedure.  Prior to the seed placement, the Foley was attempted to be placed, but we had to do it using a Glidewire to get the Foley in and we used a Councill-tip catheter.  The patient has had history of bulbar urethral stricture.  Pictures were taken of the strictures in the pre-seed placement cysto time frame.  We needed to do the cystoscopy and Glidewire to be able to get the Foley catheter in.  At the end of the procedure, again cystoscopy was done, the entire bladder was visualized.  The stricture was wide open.  The prostate was slightly enlarged.  The bladder appeared normal.  There was no sheath inside the urethra or in the bladder.  The cysto was done using 30-degree and 70-degree lens.  At the end of the procedure, a Glidewire was placed, and 18 Councill-tip catheter was placed.  The plan was for Foley to be left in place overnight since the patient has history of urethral strictures.  The patient is to follow up tomorrow to have the Foley removed.  The patient could also be shown to have it removed at home.,The patient was brought to Recovery in stable condition at the end of the procedure.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.
REASON FOR CONSULT: , I was asked to see this patient with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer, on hospice with inferior ST-elevation MI.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient from prior strokes has expressive aphasia, is not able to express herself in a clear meaningful fashion.  Her daughter who accompanies her is very attentive whom I had met previously during drainage of a malignant hemorrhagic pericardial effusion last month.  The patient has been feeling well for the last several weeks, per the daughter, but today per the personal aide, became agitated and uncomfortable at about 2:30 p.m.  At about 7 p.m., the patient began vomiting, was noted to be short of breath by her daughter with garbled speech, arms flopping, and irregular head movements.  Her daughter called 911 and her symptoms seemed to improve.  Then, she began vomiting.  When the patient's daughter asked her if she had chest pain, the patient said yes.,She came to the emergency room, an EKG showed inferior ST-elevation MI.  I was called immediately and knowing her history, especially, her hospice status with recent hemorrhagic pericardial effusion, I felt thrombolytic was contraindicated and she would not be a candidate for aggressive interventional therapy with PCI/CABG.  She was begun after discussion with the oncologist, on heparin drip and has received morphine, nitro, and beta-blocker, and currently states that she is pain free.  Repeat EKG shows normalization of her ST elevation in the inferior leads as well as normalization of prior reciprocal changes.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Significant for metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer.  In early-to-mid December, she had an admission and was found to have a malignant pericardial effusion with tamponade requiring urgent drainage.  We did repeat an echo several weeks later and that did not show any recurrence of the pericardial effusion.  She is on hospice from the medical history, atrial fibrillation, hypertension, history of multiple CVA.,MEDICATIONS: , Medications as an outpatient:,1.  Amiodarone 200 mg once a day.,2.  Roxanol concentrate 5 mg three hours p.r.n. pain.,ALLERGIES:  ,CODEINE.  NO SHRIMP, SEAFOOD, OR DYE ALLERGY.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Negative for cardiac disease.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , She does not smoke cigarettes.  She uses alcohol.  No use of illicit drugs.  She is divorced and lives with her daughter.  She is a retired medical librarian from Florida.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  ,Unable to be obtained due to the patient's aphasia.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , Height 5 feet 3, weight of 106 pounds, temperature 97.1 degrees, blood pressure ranges from 138/82 to 111/87, pulse 61, respiratory rate 22.  O2 saturation 100%.  On general exam, she is an elderly woman with now marked aphasia, which per her daughter waxes and wanes, was more pronounced and she nods her head up and down when she says the word, no, and conversely, she nods her head side-to-side when she uses the word yes with some discordance in her head gestures with vocalization.  HEENT shows the cranium is normocephalic and atraumatic.  She has dry mucosal membrane.  She now has a right facial droop, which per her daughter is new.  Neck veins are not distended.  No carotid bruits visible.  Skin:  Warm, well perfused.  Lungs are clear to auscultation anteriorly.  No wheezes.  Cardiac exam:  S1, S2, regular rate.  No significant murmurs.  PMI is nondisplaced.  Abdomen:  Soft, nondistended.  Extremities:  Without edema, on limited exam.  Neurological exam seems to show only the right facial droop.,DIAGNOSTIC/LABORATORY DATA: , EKGs as reviewed above.  Her last ECG shows normalization of prior ST elevation in the inferior leads with Q waves and first-degree AV block, PR interval 280 milliseconds.  Further lab shows sodium 135, potassium 4.2, chloride 98, bicarbonate 26, BUN 9, creatinine 0.8, glucose 162, troponin 0.17, INR 1.27, white blood cell count 1.3, hematocrit 31, platelet count of 179.,Chest x-ray, no significant pericardial effusion.,IMPRESSION: , The patient is a 69-year-old woman with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer with a recent hemorrhagic pericardial effusion, now admitted with cerebrovascular accident and transient inferior myocardial infarction, which appears to be canalized.  I will discuss this in detail with the patient and her daughter, and clearly, her situation is quite guarded with likely poor prognosis, which they are understanding of.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1.  I think it is reasonable to continue heparin, but clearly she would be at risk for hemorrhagic pericardial effusion recurrence.,2.  Morphine is appropriate, especially for preload reduction and other comfort measures as appropriate.,3.  Would avoid other blood thinners including Plavix, Integrilin, and certainly, she is not a candidate for a thrombolytic with which the patient and her daughter are in agreement with after a long discussion.,Other management as per the medical service.  I have discussed the case with Dr. X of the hospitalist service who will be admitting the patient.
OPERATION: , Subxiphoid pericardial window.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal anesthesia.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:  ,After obtaining informed consent from the patient's family, including a thorough explanation of the risks and benefits of the aforementioned procedure, patient was taken to the operating room and general endotracheal anesthesia was administered.  Next, the neck and chest were prepped and draped in the standard surgical fashion.  A #10-blade scalpel was used to make an incision in the area of the xiphoid process.  Dissection was carried down to the level of the fascia using Bovie electrocautery.  The xiphoid process was elevated, and the diaphragmatic attachments to it were dissected free.  Next the pericardium was identified.,The pericardium was opened with Bovie electrocautery.  Upon entering the pericardium, serous fluid was expressed.  In total, ** cc of fluid was drained.  A pericardial biopsy was obtained.  The fluid was sent off for cytologic examination as well as for culture.  A #24 Blake chest drain was brought out through the skin and placed in the posterior pericardium.  The fascia was closed with #1 Vicryl followed by 2-0 Vicryl followed by 4-0 PDS in a running subcuticular fashion.  Sterile dressing was applied.
CC: ,Bilateral lower extremity numbness.,HX: ,21 y/o RHM complained of gradual onset numbness and incoordination of both lower extremities beginning approximately 11/5/96. The symptoms became maximal over a 12-24 hour period and have not changed since. The symptoms consist of tingling in the distal lower extremities approximately half way up the calf bilaterally. He noted decreased coordination of both lower extremities which he thought might be due to uncertainty as to where his feet were being placed in space. He denied bowel/bladder problems, or weakness or numbness elsewhere. Hot showers may improve his symptoms. He has suffered no recent flu-like illness. Past medical and family histories are unremarkable. He was on no medications.,EXAM:, Unremarkable except for mild distal vibratory sensation loss in the toes (R>L).,LAB:, CBC, Gen Screen, TSH, FT4, SPE, ANA were all WNL.,MRI L-SPINE:, Normal.,COURSE:, Normal exam and diminished symptoms at following visit 4/23/93.
PREPROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS: , Complete heart block.,POSTPROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS:  ,Complete heart block.,PROCEDURES PLANNED AND PERFORMED,1.  Implantation of a dual-chamber pacemaker.,2.  Fluoroscopic guidance for implantation of a dual-chamber pacemaker.,FLUOROSCOPY TIME: , 2.6 minutes.,MEDICATIONS AT THE TIME OF STUDY,1.  Versed 2.5 mg.,2.  Fentanyl 150 mcg.,3.  Benadryl 50 mg.,CLINICAL HISTORY: , the patient is a pleasant 80-year-old female who presented to the hospital with complete heart block.  She has been referred for a pacemaker implantation.,RISKS AND BENEFITS: , Risks, benefits, and alternatives to implantation of a dual-chamber pacemaker were discussed with the patient.  The patient agreed both verbally and via written consent.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , The patient was transported to the cardiac catheterization laboratory in the fasting state.  The region of the left deltopectoral groove was prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner.  Lidocaine 1% (20 mL) was administered to the area.  After achieving appropriate anesthesia, percutaneous access of the left axillary vein was then performed under fluoroscopy.  A guide wire was advanced into the vein.  Following this, a 4-inch long transverse incision was made through the skin and subcutaneous tissue exposing the pectoral fascia and muscle beneath.  Hemostasis was achieved with electrocautery.  Lidocaine 1% (10 mL) was then administered to the medial aspect of the incision.  A pocket was then fashioned in the medial direction.  Using the previously placed wire, a 7-French side-arm sheath was advanced over the wire into the left axillary vein.  The dilator was then removed over the wire.  A second wire was then advanced into the sheath into the left axillary vein.  The sheath was then removed over the top of the two wires.  One wire was then pinned to the drape.  Using the remaining wire, a 7 French side-arm sheath was advanced back into the left axillary vein.  The dilator and wire were removed.  A passive pacing lead was then advanced down into the right atrium.  The peel-away sheath was removed.  The lead was then passed across the tricuspid valve and positioned in the apical location.  Adequate pacing and sensing functions were established.  Suture sleeve was advanced to the entry point of the tissue and connected securely to the tissue.  With the remaining wire, a 7-French side-arm sheath was advanced over the wire into the axillary vein.  The wire and dilating sheaths were removed.  An active pacing lead was then advanced down into the right atrium.  The peel-away sheath was removed.  Preformed J stylet was then advanced into the lead.  The lead was positioned in the appendage location.  Lead body was then turned, and the active fix screw was fixed to the tissue.  Adequate pacing and sensing function were established.  Suture sleeve was advanced to the entry point of the tissue and connected securely to the tissue.  The pocket was then washed with antibiotic-impregnated saline.  Pulse generator was obtained and connected securely to the leads.  The leads were then carefully wrapped behind the pulse generator, and the entire system was placed in the pocket.  The pocket was then closed with 2-0, 3-0, and 4-0 Vicryl using a running mattress stitch.  Sponge and needle counts were correct at the end of the procedure.  No acute complications were noted.,DEVICE DATA,1.  Pulse generator, manufacturer Boston Scientific, model # 12345, serial #1234.,2.  Right atrial lead, manufacturer Guidant, model #12345, serial #1234.,3.  Right ventricular lead, manufacturer Guidant, model #12345, serial #1234.,MEASURED INTRAOPERATIVE DATA,1.  Right atrial lead impedance 534 ohms.  P waves measured at 1.2 millivolts.  Pacing threshold 1.0 volt at 0.5 milliseconds.,2.  Right ventricular lead impedance 900 ohms.  R-waves measured 6.0 millivolts.  Pacing threshold 1.0 volt at 0.5 milliseconds.,DEVICE SETTINGS: , DDD 60 to 130.,CONCLUSIONS,1.  Successful implantation of a dual-chamber pacemaker with adequate pacing and sensing function.,2.  No acute complications.,PLAN,1.  The patient will be taken back to her room for continued observation.  She can be dismissed in 24 hours provided no acute complications at the discretion of the primary service.,2.  Chest x-ray to rule out pneumothorax and verified lead position.,3.  Completion of the course of antibiotics.,4.  Home dismissal instructions provided in written format.,5.  Device interrogation in the morning.,6.  Wound check in 7 to 10 days.,7.  Enrollment in device clinic.
GENERAL APPEARANCE: , This is a well-developed and well-nourished, ??,VITAL SIGNS: , Blood pressure ??, heart rate ?? and regular, respiratory rate ??, temperature is ?? degrees Fahrenheit.  Height is ?? feet ?? inches.  Weight is ?? pounds.  This yields a body mass index of ??.,HEAD, EYES, EARS, NOSE AND THROAT:,  The pupils were equal, round and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements are intact.  Sclera are nonicteric.  Ears, nose, mouth and throat - Externally the ears and nose are normal.  The mucous membranes are moist and midline.,NECK:  ,The neck is supple without masses.  No thyromegaly, no carotid bruits, no adenopathy.,LUNGS:  ,There is a normal respiratory effort.  Bilateral breath sounds are clear.  No wheezes or rales or rhonchi.,CARDIAC: , Normal cardiac impulse location.  S1 and S2 are normal.  No rubs, murmurs or gallops.  A regular rate and rhythm.  There are no abdominal aortic bruits.  The carotid, brachial, radial, femoral, popliteal and dorsalis pedis pulses are 2+ and equal bilaterally.,EXTREMITIES: , The extremities are without clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.,CHEST: , The chest examination is unremarkable.,BREASTS:  ,The breasts show no masses or tenderness.  No axillary adenopathy.,ABDOMEN:,  The abdomen is flat, soft, nontender, no organomegaly, no masses, normal bowel sounds are present.,RECTAL: , Examination was deferred.,LYMPHATIC: , No neck, axillary or groin adenopathy was noted.,SKIN EXAMINATION:,  Unremarkable.,MUSCULOSKELETAL EXAMINATION: , Grossly normal.,NEUROLOGIC: , The cranial nerves two through twelve are grossly intact.  Patellar and biceps reflexes are normal.,PSYCHIATRIC: , The patient is awake, alert and oriented times three.  Judgment and insight are good.  Affect is appropriate.
DIAGNOSIS: , Ankle sprain, left ankle.,HISTORY: , The patient is a 31-year-old female who was referred to Physical Therapy secondary to a fall on 10/03/08.  The patient states that she tripped over her dog toy and fell with her left foot inverted.  The patient states that she received a series of x-rays and MRIs that were unremarkable.  After approximately 1 month, the patient continued to have significant debilitating pain in her left ankle.  She then received a walking boot and has been in the boot for the past month.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Significant for hypertension, asthma, and cervical cancer.  The cervical cancer was diagnosed as 15 years old.  The patient states that her cancer is "dormant.",MEDICATIONS:,1.  Hydrochlorothiazide.,2.  Lisinopril.,3.  Percocet.,The patient states that the Percocet helps to take the edge of her pain, but does not completely eliminate it.,SUBJECTIVE: , The patient rates the pain at 2/10 on the pain analog scale.  The patient states that with elevation and rest, her pain subsides.,FUNCTIONAL ACTIVITIES/HOBBIES: , Currently limited including basic household chores and activities, this does increases her pain.  The patient states she also recently joined Weight Watchers and was involved in a walking routine and is currently unable to participate in this activity.,WORK STATUS: , The patient is currently on medical leave as a paraprofessional.  The patient states that she works as a teacher's aide in the school system and is required to complete extensive walking and standing activities.  The patient states that she is primarily on her feet while at work and rarely has a sitting break for extensive period of time.  The patient's goal is to be able to stand and walk without pain.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,The patient lives in a private home with children and her father.  The patient states that she does have stairs to negotiate without the use of a railing.  She states that she is able to manage the stairs, however, is very slow with her movement.  The patient smokes 1-1/2 packs of cigarettes a day and does not have a history of regular exercise routine.,OBJECTIVE: , Upon observation, the patient is a very obese female who is ambulating with significant antalgic gait pattern and altered normal gait due to the pain as well as the walking boot.  Upon inspection of the left ankle, it appears to have swelling, unsure if this swelling is secondary to injury or water retention as the patient states she has significant water retention.  When compared to right ankle edema, it is approximately equal.  There is no evidence of discoloration or temperature.  The patient states that she had no bruising at the time of injury.,Active range of motion of left ankle is as follows:  Dorsiflexion is 6 degrees past neutral and plantar flexion is 54 degrees, eversion 20 degrees, and inversion is 30 degrees.  Left ankle dorsiflexion lacks 10 degrees from neutral and plantar flexion is 36 degrees, this motion is very painful.  The patient was tearful during this activity.  Eversion is 3 degrees and inversion is 25 degrees.  The patient states this movement was difficult, but not painful.  Strength testing of the right lower extremity is grossly 4+-5/5 and left ankle is 2/5 as the patient is unable to obtain full range of motion.,PALPATION: , The patient is very tender to palpation primarily along the lateral malleolus of the left ankle.,JOINT PLAY: , Unable to be assessed secondary to the patient's extreme tenderness and guarding of the ankle joint.,SPECIAL TESTS:,  A 6-minute walk test.  The patient was able to ambulate approximately 600 feet while wearing her walking boot prior to her pain significantly increasing in the ankle and requiring the test to be stopped.,ASSESSMENT:  ,The patient would benefit from skilled physical therapy intervention as a trial of treatment in order to address the following problem list:,1.  Increased pain.,2.  Decreased range of motion.,3.  Decreased strength.,4.  Decreased ability to complete work task and functional activities in the home.,5.  Decreased gait pattern.,SHORT-TERM GOALS TO BE COMPLETED IN 3 WEEKS:,1.  The patient will demonstrate independence with home exercise program.,2.  The patient will ambulate without her boot for 48 hours in order to decrease reliance upon the boot for ankle stabilization.,3.  The patient will achieve left ankle dorsiflexion to neutral and plantar flexion to 45 degrees without significant increase in pain.,4.  The patient will demonstrate 3/5 strength of the left ankle.,5.  The patient will tolerate the completion of the 6-minute walk test without the use of a boot with minimal increase in pain.,LONG-TERM GOALS TO BE COMPLETED IN 6 WEEKS:,1.  The patient will report 0/10 pain in the 48-hour period without the use of medication and without wearing her boot.,2.  The patient will return to go through the work without the use of the walking boot with report of minimal increase in pain and discomfort.,PROGNOSIS:,  Fair for above-stated goals with full compliance to home exercise program and therapy treatment as well as the patient motivation.,PLAN: , The patient to be seen three times a week for 6 weeks for the following:
CHIEF COMPLAINT:, Intractable nausea and vomiting.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:, This is a 43-year-old black female who was recently admitted and discharged yesterday for the same complaint. She has a long history of gastroparesis dating back to 2000, diagnosed by gastroscopy. She also has had multiple endoscopies revealing gastritis and esophagitis. She has been noted in the past multiple times to be medically noncompliant with her medication regimen. She also has very poorly controlled hypertension, diabetes mellitus and she also underwent a laparoscopic right adrenalectomy due to an adrenal adenoma in January, 2006. She presents to the emergency room today with elevated blood pressure and extreme nausea and vomiting. She was discharged on Reglan and high-dose PPI yesterday, and was instructed to take all of her medications as prescribed. She states that she has been compliant, but her symptoms have not been controlled. It should be noted that on her hospital admission she would have times where she would feel extremely sick to her stomach, and then soon after she would be witnessed going outside to smoke.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,1. Diabetes mellitus (poorly controlled).,2. Hypertension (poorly controlled).,3. Chronic renal insufficiency.,4. Adrenal mass.,5. Obstructive sleep apnea.,6. Arthritis.,7. Hyperlipidemia.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:,1. Removal of ovarian cyst.,2. Hysterectomy.,3. Multiple EGDs with biopsies over the last six years. Her last EGD was in June, 2005, which showed esophagitis and gastritis.,4. Colonoscopy in June, 2005, showing diverticular disease.,5. Cardiac catheterization in February, 2002, showing normal coronary arteries and no evidence of renal artery stenosis.,6. Laparoscopic adrenalectomy in January, 2006.,MEDICATIONS:,1. Reglan 10 mg orally every 6 hours.,2. Nexium 20 mg orally twice a day.,3. Labetalol.,4. Hydralazine.,5. Clonidine.,6. Lantus 20 units at bedtime.,7. Humalog 30 units before meals.,8. Prozac 40 mg orally daily.,SOCIAL HISTORY:, She has a 27 pack year smoking history. She denies any alcohol use. She does have a history of chronic marijuana use.,FAMILY HISTORY:, Significant for diabetes and hypertension.,ALLERGIES:, NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,HEENT: See has had headaches, and some dizziness. She denies any vision changes.,CARDIAC: She denies any chest pain or palpitations.,RESPIRATORY: She denies any shortness of breath.,GI: She has had persistent nausea and vomiting. She denies diarrhea, melena or hematemesis.,NEUROLOGICAL: She denies any neurological deficits.,All other systems were reviewed and were negative unless otherwise mentioned in HPI.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure: 220/130. Heart rate: 113. Respiratory rate: 18. Temperature: 98.,GENERAL: This is a 43-year-old obese African-American female who appears in no acute distress. She has a depressed mood and flat affect, and does not answer questions elaborately. She will simply state that she does not feel well.,HEENT: Normocephalic, atraumatic, anicteric. PERRLA. EOMI. Mucous membranes moist. Oropharynx is clear.,NECK: Supple. No JVD. No lymphadenopathy.,LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally, nonlabored.,HEART: Regular rate and rhythm. S1 and S2. No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  Patient is a 76-year-old white male who presents with his wife stating that he was stung by a bee on his right hand, left hand, and right knee at approximately noon today.  He did not note any immediate reaction.  Since that time, he has noted some increasing redness and swelling to his left hand, but he denies any generalized symptoms such as itching, hives, or shortness of breath.  He denies any sensation of tongue swelling or difficulty swallowing.,The patient states he was stung approximately one month ago without any serious reaction.  He did windup taking Benadryl at that time.  He has not taken anything today for his symptoms, but he is on hydrochlorothiazide and metoprolol for hypertension as well as a baby aspirin each day.,ALLERGIES: , HE DOES HAVE MEDICATION INTOLERANCES TO SULFA DRUGS (HEADACHE), MORPHINE (NAUSEA AND VOMITING), AND TORADOL (ULCER).,SOCIAL HISTORY: , Patient is married and is a nonsmoker and lives with his wife, who is here with him.,Nursing notes were reviewed with which I agree.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  Temp and vital signs are all within normal limits.,GENERAL:  In general, the patient is an elderly white male who is sitting on the stretcher in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Head is normocephalic and atraumatic.  The face shows no edema.  The tongue is not swollen and the airway is widely patent.,NECK:  No stridor.,HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs, rubs, or gallops.,LUNGS:  Clear without rales, rhonchi, or wheezes.,EXTREMITIES:  Upper extremities, there is some edema and erythema to the dorsum of the left hand in the region of the distal third to fifth metacarpals.  There was some slight edema of the fourth digit, on which he still is wearing his wedding band.  The right hand shows no reaction.  The right knee is not swollen either.,The left fourth digit was wrapped in a rubber tourniquet to express the edema and using some Surgilube, I was able to remove his wedding band without any difficulty.  Patient was given Claritin 10 mg orally for what appears to be a simple local reaction to an insect sting.  I did explain to him that his swelling and redness may progress over the next few days.,ASSESSMENT: , Local reaction secondary to insect sting.,PLAN: , The patient was reassured that this is not a serious reaction to an insect sting and he should not progress to such a reaction.  I did urge him to use Claritin 10 mg once daily until the redness and swelling has gone.  I did explain that the swelling may worsen over the next two to three days, it may produce a large local reaction, but that anti-histamines were still the mainstay of therapy for such a reaction.  If he is not improved in the next four days, follow up with his PCP for a re-exam.
PROCEDURE:, Esophagogastroduodenoscopy with biopsy and snare polypectomy.,INDICATION FOR THE PROCEDURE:, Iron-deficiency anemia.,MEDICATIONS:, MAC.,The risks of the procedure were made aware to the patient and consisted of medication reaction, bleeding, perforation, and aspiration.,PROCEDURE:, After informed consent and appropriate sedation, the upper endoscope was inserted into the oropharynx down into the stomach and beyond the pylorus and the second portion of the duodenum. The duodenal mucosa was completely normal. The pylorus was normal. In the stomach, there was evidence of diffuse atrophic-appearing nodular gastritis. Multiple biopsies were obtained. There also was a 1.5-cm adenomatous appearing polyp along the greater curvature at the junction of the body and antrum. There was mild ulceration on the tip of this polyp. It was decided to remove the polyp via snare polypectomy. Retroflexion was performed, and this revealed a small hiatal hernia in the distal esophagus. The Z-line was identified and was unremarkable. The esophageal mucosa was normal.,FINDINGS:,1. Hiatal hernia.,2. Diffuse nodular and atrophic appearing gastritis, biopsies taken.,3. A 1.5-cm polyp with ulceration along the greater curvature, removed.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1. Follow up biopsies.,2. Continue PPI.,3. Hold Lovenox for 5 days.,4. Place SCDs.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  C4-C5, C5-C6 stenosis.,PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , C4-C5, C5-C6 stenosis.,PROCEDURE: , C4-C5, C5-C6 anterior cervical discectomy and fusion.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,INDICATIONS OF PROCEDURE: , The patient is a 62-year-old female who presents with neck pain as well as upper extremity symptoms.  Her MRI showed stenosis at portion of C4 to C6.  I discussed the procedure as well as risks and complications.  She wishes to proceed with surgery.  Risks will include but are not limited to infection, hemorrhage, spinal fluid leak, worsened neurologic deficit, recurrent stenosis, requiring further surgery, difficulty with fusion requiring further surgery, long-term hoarseness of voice, difficulty swallowing, medical anesthesia risk.,PROCEDURE:  ,The patient was taken to the operating room on 10/02/2007.  She was intubated for anesthesia.  TEDS and boots as well as Foley catheter were placed.  She was placed in a supine position with her neck in neutral position.  Appropriate pads were also used.  The area was prepped and draped in usual sterile fashion.  Preoperative localization was taken.  _____ not changed.  Incision was made on the right side in transverse fashion over C5 vertebral body level.  This was made with a #10 blade knife and further taken down with pickups and scissors.  The plane between the esophagus and carotid artery was carefully dissected both bluntly and sharply down to the anterior aspect of the cervical spine.  Intraoperative x-ray was taken.  Longus colli muscles were retracted laterally.  Caspar retractors were used.  Intraoperative x-ray was taken.  I first turned by attention at C5-C6 interspace.  This was opened with #15 blade knife.  Disc material was taken out using pituitary as well as Kerrison rongeur.  Anterior aspects were taken down.  End plates were arthrodesed using curettes.  This was done under distraction.  Posterior longitudinal ligament was opened with a nerve hook and Kerrison rongeur.  Bilateral foraminotomies were done.  At this point, I felt that there was a good decompression.  The foramen appeared to be opened.  Medtronic cage was then encountered and sent few millimeters.  This was packed with demineralized bone matrix.  The distraction was then taken down.  The cage appeared to be strong.  This procedure was then repeated at C4-C5.  A 42-mm AcuFix plate was then placed between C4 and C6.  This was carefully screwed and locked.  The instrumentation appeared to be strong.  Intraoperative x-ray was taken.  Irrigation was used.  Hemostasis was achieved.  The platysmas was closed with 3-0 Vicryl stitches.  The subcutaneous was closed with 4-0 Vicryl stitches.  The skin was closed with Steri-strips.  The area was clean and dry and dressed with Telfa and Tegaderm.  Soft cervical collar was placed for the patient.  She was extubated per anesthesia and brought to the recovery in stable condition.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , This is a 91-year-old male with a previous history of working in the coalmine and significant exposure to silica with resultant pneumoconiosis and fibrosis of the lung.  The patient also has a positive history of smoking in the past.  At the present time, he is admitted for continued,management of respiratory depression with other medical complications.  The patient was treated for multiple problems at Jefferson Hospital prior to coming here including abdominal discomfort due to a ureteral stone with resultant hydronephrosis and hydroureter.  In addition, he also developed cardiac complications including atrial fibrillation.  The patient was evaluated by the cardiologist as well as the pulmonary service and Urology.  He had a cystoscopy performed and a left ureteral stone was removed as well as insertion of a left ureteral stent on 07/23/2008.  He subsequently underwent cardiac arrest and he was resuscitated at that time.  He was intubated and placed on mechanical ventilatory support.  Subsequent weaning was unsuccessful.  He then had a tracheostomy placed.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,1.  Albuterol.,2.  Pacerone.,3.  Theophylline,4.  Lovenox.,5.  Atrovent.,6.  Insulin.,7.  Lantus.,8.  Zestril.,9.  Magnesium oxide.,10.  Lopressor.,11.  Zegerid.,12.  Tylenol as needed.,ALLERGIES:,  PENICILLIN.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,1.  History of coal miner's disease.,2.  History of COPD.,3.  History of atrial fibrillation.,4.  History of coronary artery disease.,5.  History of coronary artery stent placement.,6.  History of gastric obstruction.,7.  History of prostate cancer.,8.  History of chronic diarrhea.,9.  History of pernicious anemia.,10.  History of radiation proctitis.,11.  History of anxiety.,12.  History of ureteral stone.,13.  History of hydronephrosis.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , The patient had been previously a smoker.  No other could be obtained because of tracheostomy presently.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Noncontributory to the present condition and review of his previous charts.,SYSTEMS REVIEW: , The patient currently is agitated.  Rapidly moving his upper extremities.  No other history regarding his systems could be elicited from the patient.,PHYSICAL EXAM:,General:  The patient is currently agitated with some level of distress.  He has rapid respiratory rate.  He is responsive to verbal commands by looking at the eyes.,Vital Signs:  As per the monitors are stable.,Extremities:  Inspection of the upper extremities reveals extreme xerosis of the skin with multiple areas of ecchymosis and skin tears some of them to the level of stage II especially over the dorsum of the hands and forearm areas.  There is also edema of the forearm extending up to the mid upper arm area.  Palpation of the upper extremities reveals fibrosis more prominent on the right forearm area with the maximum edema in the elbow area on the ulnar aspect.  There is also scabbing of some of the possibly from earlier skin tears in the upper side forearm area.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Ulceration of bilateral upper extremities.,2.  Cellulitis of upper extremities.,3.  Lymphedema of upper extremities.,4.  Other noninfectious disorders of lymphatic channels.,5.  Ventilatory-dependent respiratory failure.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Acute abdominal pain, rule out appendicitis versus other.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Acute pelvic inflammatory disease and periappendicitis.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Diagnostic laparoscopy.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,CULTURES:,  Intra-abdominally are done.,HISTORY:  ,The patient is a 31-year-old African-American female patient who complains of sudden onset of pain and has seen in the Emergency Room.  The pain has started in the umbilical area and radiated to McBurney's point.  The patient appears to have a significant pain requiring surgical evaluation.  It did not appear that the pain was pelvic in nature, but more higher up in the abdomen, more towards the appendix.  The patient was seen by Dr. Y at my request in the ER with me in attendance.  We went over the case.  He decided that she should go to the operating room for evaluation and to have appendix evaluated and probably removed.  The patient on ultrasound had a 0.9 cm ovarian cyst on the right side.  The patient's cyst was not completely simple and they are concerns over the possibility of an abnormality.  The patient states that she has had chlamydia in the past, but it was not a pelvic infection more vaginal infection.  The patient has had hospitalization for this.  The patient therefore signed informed in layman's terms with her understanding that perceivable risks and complications, the alternative treatment, the procedure itself and recovery.  All questions were answered.  ,PROCEDURE: ,The patient was seen in the Emergency Room.  In the Emergency Room, there is really no apparent vaginal discharge.  No odor or cervical motion tenderness.  Negative bladder sweep.  Adnexa were without abnormalities.  In the OR, we were able to perform pelvic examination showing a slightly enlarged fibroid uterus about 9 to 10-week size.  The patient had no adnexal fullness.  The patient then underwent an insertion of a uterine manipulator and Dr. X was in the case at that time and he started the laparoscopic process i.e., inserting the laparoscope.  We then observed under direct laparoscopic visualization with the aid of a camera that there was pus in and around the uterus.  The both fallopian tubes were seen.  There did not appear to be hydrosalpinx.  The ovaries were seen.  The left showed some adhesions into the ovarian fossa.  The cul-de-sac had a banded adhesions.  The patient on the right adnexa had a hemorrhagic ovarian cyst, where the cyst was only about a centimeter enlarged.  The ovary did not appear to have pus in it, but there was pus over the area of the bladder flap.  The patient's bowel was otherwise unremarkable.  The liver contained evidence of Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome and prior PID.  The appendix was somewhat adherent into the retrocecal area and to the mid-quadrant abdominal sidewall on the right.  The case was then turned over to Dr. Y who was in the room at that time and Dr. X had left.  The patient's case was turned over to him.  Dr. Y was performed an appendectomy following which cultures and copious irrigation.  Dr. Y was then closed the case.  The patient was placed on antibiotics.  We await the results of the cultures and as well further ______ therapy.,PRIMARY DIAGNOSES:,1.  Periappendicitis.,2.  Pelvic inflammatory disease.,3.  Chronic adhesive disease.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,The patient is a 78-year-old woman here because of recently discovered microscopic hematuria.  History of present illness occurs in the setting of a recent check up, which demonstrated red cells and red cell casts on a routine evaluation.  The patient has no new joint pains; however, she does have a history of chronic degenerative joint disease.  She does not use nonsteroidal agents.  She has had no gross hematuria and she has had no hemoptysis.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , No chest pain or shortness of breath, no problem with revision.  The patient has had decreased hearing for many years.  She has no abdominal pain or nausea or vomiting.  She has no anemia.  She has noticed no swelling.  She has no history of seizures.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Significant for hypertension and hyperlipidemia.  There is no history of heart attack or stroke.  She has had bilateral simple mastectomies done 35 years ago.  She has also had one-third of her lung removed for carcinoma (probably an adeno CA related to a pneumonia.)  She also had hysterectomy in the past.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , She is a widow.  She does not smoke.,MEDICATIONS:,1.  Dyazide one a day.,2.  Pravachol 80 mg a day in the evening.,3.  Vitamin E once a day.,4.  One baby aspirin per day.,FAMILY HISTORY:,  Unremarkable.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,  She looks younger than her stated age of 78 years.  She was hard of hearing, but could read my lips.  Respirations were 16.  She was afebrile.  Pulse was about 90 and regular.  Her gait was normal.  Blood pressure is 140/70 in her left arm seated.  HEENT:  She had arcus cornealis.  The pupils were equal.  The sclerae were not icteric.  The conjunctivae were pink.  NECK:  The thyroid is not palpated.  No nodes were palpated in the neck.  CHEST:  Clear to auscultation.  She had no sacral edema.  CARDIAC:  Regular, but she was tachycardic at the rate of about 90.  She had no diastolic murmur.  ABDOMEN:  Soft, and nontender.  I did not palpate the liver.  EXTREMITIES:  She had no appreciable edema.  She had no digital clubbing.  She had no cyanosis.  She had changes of the degenerative joint disease in her fingers.  She had good pedal pulses.  She had no twitching or myoclonic jerks.,LABORATORY DATA: , The urine, I saw 1-2 red cells per high power fields.  She had no protein.  She did have many squamous cells.  The patient has creatinine of 1 mg percent and no proteinuria.  It seems unlikely that she has glomerular disease; however, we cannot explain the red cells in the urine.,PLAN: , To obtain a routine sonogram.  I would also repeat a routine urinalysis to check for blood again.  I have ordered a C3 and C4 and if the repeat urine shows red cells, I will recommend a cystoscopy with a retrograde pyelogram.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Left distal ureteral stone.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Left distal ureteral stone.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Cystopyelogram, left ureteroscopy, laser lithotripsy, stone basket extraction, stent exchange with a string attached.,ANESTHESIA:,  LMA.,EBL: , Minimal.,FLUIDS: , Crystalloid.  The patient was given antibiotics, 1 g of Ancef and the patient was on oral antibiotics at home.,BRIEF HISTORY: , The patient is a 61-year-old female with history of recurrent uroseptic stones.  The patient had stones x2, 1 was already removed, second one came down, had recurrent episode of sepsis, stent was placed.  Options were given such as watchful waiting, laser lithotripsy, shockwave lithotripsy etc.  Risks of anesthesia, bleeding, infection, pain, need for stent, and removal of the stent were discussed.  The patient understood and wanted to proceed with the procedure.,DETAILS OF THE PROCEDURE: , The patient was brought to the OR.  Anesthesia was applied.  The patient was placed in dorsal lithotomy position.  The patient was prepped and draped in usual sterile fashion.  A 0.035 glidewire was placed in the left system.  Using graspers, left-sided stent was removed.  A semirigid ureteroscopy was done.  A stone was visualized in the mid to upper ureter.  Using laser, the stone was broken into 5 to 6 small pieces.  Using basket extraction, all the pieces were removed.  Ureteroscopy all the way up to the UPJ was done, which was negative.  There were no further stones.  Using pyelograms, the rest of the system appeared normal.  The entire ureter on the left side was open and patent.  There were no further stones.  Due to the edema and the surgery, plan was to leave the stent attached to the string and the patient was to pull the string in about 24 hours.  Over the 0.035 glidewire, a 26 double-J stent was placed.  There was a nice curl in the kidney and one in the bladder.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  Please note that the string was kept in place and the patient was to remove the stent the next day.  The patient's family was instructed how to do so.  The patient had antibiotics and pain medications at home.  The patient was brought to recovery room in a stable condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Left upper extremity amputation.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Left upper extremity amputation.,PROCEDURES:,1.  Left abdominal flap 5 x 5 cm to left forearm.,2.  Debridement of skin, subcutaneous tissue, muscle, and bone.,3.  Closure of wounds, simple closure approximately 8 cm.,4.  Placement of VAC negative pressure wound dressing.,INDICATIONS: , This 3-year-old male suffered amputation of his left upper extremity with complications of injury.  He presents at this time for further attempts at closure.,OPERATIVE FINDINGS: , A clean wound to left upper extremity with partial dehiscence of previously closed wounds and also the closure was satisfactory.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , Under inhalational anesthesia, he was prepped and draped in usual fashion exposing left upper extremity and also exposing continuity of the left abdomen, chest, and groin.  He underwent systematic evaluation of his wound of his left upper extremity and we excised first the whole wound prior to doing some additional closure.  Some areas were dehisced and appeared to be because it was approximation of granulation tissue and as a result the edges were freshened up prior to approximating them.  In this fashion, simple closure was accomplished and its total length was approximately 8 cm.  It should be noted that prior to doing any procedure that appropriate timeout was performed and he received prophylactic antibiotics as indicated and did not require DVT prophylaxis.  At this time, once we accomplished debridement and simple closure removing skin, subcutaneous tissue, muscle and bone as well as closing the arm, we could design our flap for the abdomen.  The flap was designed as a slightly greater than 1:1 ellipse of skin from just below the costal margin.  This was elevated at the level of the external oblique and then laid on the left forearm.  The donor's site was closed using interrupted 4-0 Vicryl in the deep dermis and running subcuticular 4-0 Monocryl on the skin.  Steri-Strips were applied.  At this time, the flap was inset using again 4-0 Monocryl sutures and then ultimately the VAC negative pressure wound dressing was applied to help hold this in place and optimize the vascularization of the flap.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and he returned to the recovery room in satisfactory condition.
SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is keeping a food journal that she brought in.  She is counting calorie points, which ranged 26 to 30 per day.  She is exercising pretty regularly.  She attends Overeaters Anonymous and her sponsor is helping her and told her to get some ideas on how to plan snacks to prevent hypoglycemia.  The patient requests information on diabetic exchanges.  She said she is feeling better since she has lost weight.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  The patient's weight today is 209 pounds, which is down 22 pounds since I last saw her on 06/07/2004.  I praised her weight loss and her regular exercising.  I looked at her food journal.  I praised her record keeping.  I gave her a list of the diabetic exchanges and explained them.  I also gave her a food dairy sheet so that she could record exchanges.  I encouraged her to continue.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient seems happy with her progress and she seems to be doing well.  She needs to continue.,PLAN:,  Followup is on a p.r.n. basis.  She is always welcome to call or return.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Mass lesion, right upper extremity.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Intramuscular lipoma, right arm, approximately 4 cm.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:  ,Excision of intramuscular lipoma with flap closure by Dr. Y.,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE:  ,This is a 77-year-old African-American female who presents as an outpatient to the General Surgical Service with a mass in the anterior aspect of the mid-biceps region of the right upper extremity.  The mass has been increasing in size and symptoms according to the patient.  The risks and benefits of the surgical excision were discussed.  The patient gave informed consent for surgical removal.,GROSS FINDINGS: , At the time of surgery, the patient was found to have intramuscular lipoma within the head of the biceps.  It was removed in its entirety and submitted to Pathology for appropriate analysis.,PROCEDURE: , The patient was taken to the operating room.  She was given intravenous sedation and the arm area was sterilely prepped and draped in the usual fashion.  Xylocaine was utilized as local anesthetic and a longitudinal incision was made in the axis of the extremity.  The skin and subcutaneous tissue were incised as well as the muscular fascia.  The fibers of the biceps were divided bluntly and retracted.  The lipoma was grasped with an Allis clamp and blunt and sharp dissection was utilized to remove the mass without inuring the underlying neurovascular structures.  The mass was submitted to Pathology.  Good hemostasis was seen.  The wound was irrigated and closed in layers.  The deep muscular fascia was reapproximated with #2-0 Vicryl suture.,The subcutaneous tissues were reapproximated with #3-0 Vicryl suture and the deep dermis was reapproximated with #3-0 Vicryl suture.  Re-approximated wound flaps without tension and the skin was closed with #4-0 undyed Vicryl in running subcuticular fashion.  The patient was given wound care instructions and will follow up again in my office in one week.  Overall prognosis is good.
REASON FOR EXAM: , Lower quadrant pain with nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.,TECHNIQUE: , Noncontrast axial CT images of the abdomen and pelvis are obtained.,FINDINGS: , Please note evaluation of the abdominal organs is secondary to the lack of intravenous contrast material.,Gallstones are seen within the gallbladder lumen.  No abnormal pericholecystic fluid is seen.,The liver is normal in size and attenuation.,The spleen is normal in size and attenuation.,A 2.2 x 1.8 cm low attenuation cystic lesion appears to be originating off of the tail of the pancreas.  No pancreatic ductal dilatation is seen.  There is no abnormal adjacent stranding.  No suspected pancreatitis is seen.,The kidneys show no stone formation or hydronephrosis.,The large and small bowels are normal in course and caliber.  There is no evidence for obstruction.  The appendix appears within normal limits.,In the pelvis, the urinary bladder is unremarkable.  There is a 4.2 cm cystic lesion of the right adnexal region.  No free fluid, free air, or lymphadenopathy is detected.,There is left basilar atelectasis.,IMPRESSION:,1.  A 2.2 cm low attenuation lesion is seen at the pancreatic tail.  This is felt to be originating from the pancreas, a cystic pancreatic neoplasm must be considered and close interval followup versus biopsy is advised.  Additionally, when the patient's creatinine improves, a contrast-enhanced study utilizing pancreatic protocol is needed.  Alternatively, an MRI may be obtained.,2.  Cholelithiasis.,3.  Left basilar atelectasis.,4.  A 4.2 cm cystic lesion of the right adnexa, correlation with pelvic ultrasound is advised.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Recurrent spinal stenosis at L3-L4, L4-L5, and L5-S1.,2.  Spondylolisthesis, which is unstable at L4-L5.,3.  Recurrent herniated nucleus pulposus at L4-L5 bilaterally.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Recurrent spinal stenosis at L3-L4, L4-L5, and L5-S1.,2.  Spondylolisthesis, which is unstable at L4-L5.,3.  Recurrent herniated nucleus pulposus at L4-L5 bilaterally.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Microscopic-assisted revision of bilateral decompressive lumbar laminectomies and foraminotomies at the levels of L3-L4, L4-L5, and L5-S1.,2.  Posterior spinal fusion at the level of L4-L5 and L5-S1 utilizing local bone graft, allograft and segmental instrumentation.,3.  Posterior lumbar interbody arthrodesis utilizing cage instrumentation at L4-L5 with local bone graft and allograft.  All procedures were performed under SSEP, EMG, and neurophysiologic monitoring.,ANESTHESIA: , General via endotracheal tube.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:  ,Approximately 1000 cc.,CELL SAVER RETURNED:  ,Approximately 550 cc.,SPECIMENS: , None.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,DRAIN: , 8-inch Hemovac.,SURGICAL INDICATIONS: , The patient is a 59-year-old male who had severe disabling low back pain.  He had previous lumbar laminectomy at L4-L5.  He was noted to have an isthmic spondylolisthesis.,Previous lumbar laminectomy exacerbated this condition and made it further unstable.  He is suffering from neurogenic claudication.  He was unresponsive to extensive conservative treatment.  He has understanding of the risks, benefits, potential complications, treatment alternatives and provided informed consent.,OPERATIVE TECHNIQUE: , The patient was taken to OR #5 where he was given general anesthetic by the Department of Anesthesia.  He was subsequently placed prone on the Jackson's spinal table with all bony prominences well padded.  His lumbar spine was then sterilely prepped and draped in the usual fashion.  A previous midline incision was extended from approximate level of L3 to S1.  This was in the midline.  Skin and subcutaneous tissue were debrided sharply.  Electrocautery provided hemostasis.  ,Electrocautery was utilized to dissect through subcutaneous tissue of lumbar fascia.  The lumbar fascia was identified and split in the midline.  Subperiosteal dissection was then carried out with electrocautery and ______ elevated from the suspected levels of L3-S1.  Once this was exposed, the transverse processes, a Kocher clamp was placed and a localizing cross-table x-ray confirmed the interspace between the spinous processes of L3-L4.  Once this was completed, a self-retaining retractor was then placed.  With palpation of the spinous processes, the L4 posterior elements were noted to be significantly loosened and unstable.  These were readily mobile with digital palpation.  A rongeur was then utilized to resect the spinous processes from the inferior half of L3 to the superior half of S1.  This bone was morcellized and placed on the back table for utilization for bone grafting.  The rongeur was also utilized to thin the laminas from the inferior half of L3 to superior half of S1.  Once this was undertaken, the unstable posterior elements of L4 were meticulously dissected free until wide decompression was obtained.  Additional decompression was extended from the level of the inferior half of L3 to the superior half of S1.  The microscope was utilized during this portion of procedure for visualization.  There was noted to be no changes during the decompression portion or throughout the remainder of the surgical procedure.  Once decompression was deemed satisfactory, the nerve roots were individually inspected and due to the unstable spondylolisthesis, there was noted to be tension on the L4 and L5 nerve roots crossing the disc space at L4-L5.  Once this was identified, foraminotomies were created to allow additional mobility.  The wound was then copiously irrigated with antibiotic solution and suctioned dry.  Working type screws, provisional titanium screws were then placed at L4-l5.  This was to allow distraction and reduction of the spondylolisthesis.  These were placed in the pedicles of L4 and L5 under direct intensification.  The position of the screws were visualized, both AP and lateral images.  They were deemed satisfactory.,Once this was completed, a provisional plate was applied to the screws and distraction applied across L4-L5.  This allowed for additional decompression of the L5 and L4 nerve roots.  Once this was completed, the L5 nerve root was traced and deemed satisfactory exiting neural foramen after additional dissection and discectomy were performed.  Utilizing a series of interbody spacers, a size 8 mm spacer was placed within the L4-L5 interval.  This was taken in sequence up to a 13 mm space.  This was then reduced to a 11 mm as it was much more anatomic in nature.  Once this was completed, the spacers were then placed on the left side and distraction obtained.  Once the distraction was obtained to 11 mm, the interbody shavers were utilized to decorticate the interbody portion of L4 and L5 bilaterally.  Once this was taken to 11 mm bilaterally, the wound was copiously irrigated with antibiotic solution and suction dried.  A 11 mm height x 9 mm width x 25 mm length carbon fiber cages were packed with local bone graft and Allograft.  There were impacted at the interspace of L4-L5 under direct image intensification.  Once these were deemed satisfactory, the wound was copiously irrigated with antibiotic solution and suction dried.  The provisional screws and plates were removed.  This allowed for additional compression along L4-L5 with the cage instrumentation.  Permanent screws were then placed at L4, L5, and S1 bilaterally.  This was performed under direct image intensification.  The position was verified in both AP and lateral images.  Once this was completed, the posterolateral gutters were decorticated with an AM2 Midas Rex burr down to bleeding subchondral bone.  The wound was then copiously irrigated with antibiotic solution and suction dried.  The morcellized Allograft and local bone graft were mixed and packed copiously from the transverse processes of L4-S1 bilaterally.  A 0.25 inch titanium rod was contoured of appropriate length to span from L4-S1.  Appropriate cross connecters were applied and the construct was placed over the pedicle screws.  They were tightened and sequenced to allow additional posterior reduction of the L4 vertebra.  Once this was completed, final images in the image intensification unit were reviewed and were deemed satisfactory.  All connections were tightened and retightened in Torque 2 specifications.  The wound was then copiously irrigated with antibiotic solution and suction dried.  The dura was inspected and noted to be free of tension.  At the conclusion of the procedure, there was noted to be no changes on the SSEP, EMG, and neurophysiologic monitors.  An 8-inch Hemovac drain was placed exiting the wound.  The lumbar fascia was then approximated with #1 Vicryl in interrupted fashion, the subcutaneous tissue with #2-0 Vicryl interrupted fashion, surgical stainless steel clips were used to approximate the skin.  The remainder of the Hemovac was assembled.  Bulky compression dressing utilizing Adaptic, 4x4, and ABDs was then affixed to the lumbar spine with Microfoam tape.  He was turned and taken to the recovery room in apparent satisfactory condition.  Expected surgical prognosis remains guarded.
CLINICAL HISTORY: , Patient is a 37-year-old female with a history of colectomy for adenoma.  During her preop evaluation it was noted that she had a lesion on her chest x-ray.  CT scan of the chest confirmed a left lower mass.,SPECIMEN: , Lung, left lower lobe resection.,IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STUDIES:,  Tumor cells show no reactivity with cytokeratin AE1/AE3.  No significant reactivity with CAM5.2 and no reactivity with cytokeratin-20 are seen.  Tumor cells show partial reactivity with cytokeratin-7.  PAS with diastase demonstrates no convincing intracytoplasmic mucin.  No neuroendocrine differentiation is demonstrated with synaptophysin and chromogranin stains.  Tumor cells show cytoplasmic and nuclear reactivity with S100 antibody.  No significant reactivity is demonstrated with melanoma marker HMB-45 or Melan-A.  Tumor cell nuclei (spindle cell and pleomorphic/giant cell carcinoma components) show nuclear reactivity with thyroid transcription factor marker (TTF-1).  The immunohistochemical studies are consistent with primary lung sarcomatoid carcinoma with pleomorphic/giant cell carcinoma and spindle cell carcinoma components.,FINAL DIAGNOSIS:,Histologic Tumor Type:  Sarcomatoid carcinoma with areas of pleomorphic/giant cell carcinoma and spindle cell carcinoma.,Tumor Size:  2.7 x 2.0 x 1.4 cm.,Visceral Pleura Involvement:  The tumor closely approaches the pleural surface but does not invade the pleura.,Vascular Invasion:  Present.,Margins:  Bronchial resection margins and vascular margins are free of tumor.,Lymph Nodes:  Metastatic sarcomatoid carcinoma into one of four hilar lymph nodes.,Pathologic Stage:  pT1N1MX.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Multiple metastatic lesions to the brain, a subtentorial lesion on the left, greater than 3 cm, and an infratentorial lesion on the right, greater than 3 cm.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Multiple metastatic lesions to the brain, a subtentorial lesion on the left, greater than 3 cm, and an infratentorial lesion on the right, greater than 3 cm.,TITLE OF THE OPERATION:,1.  Biparietal craniotomy and excision of left parietooccipital metastasis from breast cancer.,2.  Insertion of left lateral ventriculostomy under Stealth stereotactic guidance.,3.  Right suboccipital craniectomy and excision of tumor.,4.  Microtechniques for all the above.,5.  Stealth stereotactic guidance for all of the above and intraoperative ultrasound.,INDICATIONS: , The patient is a 48-year-old woman with a diagnosis of breast cancer made five years ago.  A year ago, she was diagnosed with cranial metastases and underwent whole brain radiation.  She recently has deteriorated such that she came to my office, unable to ambulate in a wheelchair.  Metastatic workup does reveal multiple bone metastases, but no spinal cord compression.  She had a consult with Radiation-Oncology that decided they could radiate her metastases less than 3 cm with stereotactic radiosurgery, but the lesions greater than 3 cm needed to be removed.  Consequently, this operation is performed.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient underwent a planning MRI scan with Stealth protocol.  She was brought to the operating room with fiducial still on her scalp.  General endotracheal anesthesia was obtained.  She was placed on the Mayfield head holder and rolled into the prone position.  She was well padded, secured, and so forth.  The neck was flexed so as to expose the right suboccipital region as well as the left and right parietooccipital regions.  The posterior aspect of the calvarium was shaved and prepared in the usual manner with Betadine soak scrub followed by Betadine paint.  This was done only, of course, after fiducial were registered in planning and an excellent accuracy was obtained with the Stealth system.  Sterile drapes were applied and the accuracy of the system was confirmed.  A biparietal incision was performed.  A linear incision was chosen so as to increase her chances of successful wound healing and that she is status post whole brain radiation.  A biparietal craniotomy was carried out, carrying about 1 cm over toward the right side and about 4 cm over to the left side as guided by the Stealth stereotactic system.  The dura was opened and reflected back to the midline.  An inner hemispheric approach was used to reach the very large metastatic tumor.  This was very delicate removing the tumor and the co-surgeons switched off to spare one another during the more delicate parts of the operation to remove the tumor.  The tumor was wrapped around and included the choroidal vessels.  At least one choroidal vessel was sacrificed in order to obtain a gross total excision of the tumor on the parietal occipital region.  Bleeding was quite vigorous in some of the arteries and finally, however, was completely controlled.  Complete removal of the tumor was confirmed by intraoperative ultrasound.,Once the tumor had been removed and meticulous hemostasis was obtained, this wound was left opened and attention was turned to the right suboccipital area.  A linear incision was made just lateral to the greater occipital nerve.  Sharp dissection was carried down in the subcutaneous tissues and Bovie electrocautery was used to reach the skull.  A burr hole was placed down low using a craniotome.  A craniotomy was turned and then enlarged as a craniectomy to at least 4 cm in diameter.  It was carried caudally to the floor of the posterior fossa and rostrally to the transverse sinus.  Stealth and ultrasound were used to localize the very large tumor that was within the horizontal hemisphere of the cerebellum.  The ventriculostomy had been placed on the left side with the craniotomy and removal of the tumor, and this was draining CSF relieving pressure in the posterior fossa.  Upon opening the craniotomy in the parietal occipital region, the brain was noted to be extremely tight, thus necessitating placement of the ventriculostomy.,At the posterior fossa, a corticectomy was accomplished and the tumor was countered directly.  The tumor, as the one above, was removed, both piecemeal and with intraoperative Cavitron Ultrasonic Aspirator.  A gross total excision of this tumor was obtained as well.,I then explored underneath the cerebellum in hopes of finding another metastasis in the CP angle; however, this was just over the lower cranial nerves, and rather than risk paralysis of pharyngeal muscles and voice as well as possibly hearing loss, this lesion was left alone and to be radiated and that it is less than 3 cm in diameter.,Meticulous hemostasis was obtained for this wound as well.,The posterior fossa wound was then closed in layers.  The dura was closed with interrupted and running mattress of 4-0 Nurolon.  The dura was watertight, and it was covered with blue glue.  Gelfoam was placed over the dural closure.  Then, the muscle and fascia were closed in individual layers using #0 Ethibond.  Subcutaneous was closed with interrupted inverted 2-0 and 0 Vicryl, and the skin was closed with running locking 3-0 Nylon.,For the cranial incision, the ventriculostomy was brought out through a separate stab wound.  The bone flap was brought on to the field.  The dura was closed with running and interrupted 4-0 Nurolon.  At the beginning of the case, dural tack-ups had been made and these were still in place.  The sinuses, both the transverse sinus and sagittal sinus, were covered with thrombin-soaked Gelfoam to take care of any small bleeding areas in the sinuses.,Once the dura was closed, the bone flap was returned to the wound and held in place with the Lorenz microplates.  The wound was then closed in layers.  The galea was closed with multiple sutures of interrupted 2-0 Vicryl.  The skin was closed with a running locking 3-0 Nylon.,Estimated blood loss for the case was more than 1 L.  The patient received 2 units of packed red cells during the case as well as more than 1 L of Hespan and almost 3 L of crystalloid.,Nevertheless, her vitals remained stable throughout the case, and we hopefully helped her survival and her long-term neurologic status for this really nice lady.
GENERAL: , Alert, well developed, in no acute distress.,MENTAL STATUS: , Judgment and insight appropriate for age.  Oriented to time, place and person.  No recent loss of memory.  Affect appropriate for age.,EYES:  ,Pupils are equal and reactive to light.  No hemorrhages or exudates.  Extraocular muscles intact.,EAR, NOSE AND THROAT: , Oropharynx clean, mucous membranes moist.  Ears and nose without masses, lesions or deformities.  Tympanic membranes clear bilaterally.  Trachea midline.  No lymph node swelling or tenderness.,RESPIRATORY:  ,Clear to auscultation and percussion.  No wheezing, rales or rhonchi.,CARDIOVASCULAR: , Heart sounds normal.  No thrills.  Regular rate and rhythm, no murmurs, rubs or gallops.,GASTROINTESTINAL: , Abdomen soft, nondistended.  No pulsatile mass, no flank tenderness or suprapubic tenderness.  No hepatosplenomegaly.,NEUROLOGIC: , Cranial nerves II-XII grossly intact.  No focal neurological deficits.  Deep tendon reflexes +2 bilaterally.  Babinski negative.  Moves all extremities spontaneously.  Sensation intact bilaterally.,SKIN: , No rashes or lesions.  No petechia.  No purpura.  Good turgor.  No edema.,MUSCULOSKELETAL: , No cyanosis or clubbing.  No gross deformities.  Capable of free range of motion without pain or crepitation.  No laxity, instability or dislocation.,BONE: , No misalignment, asymmetry, defect, tenderness or effusion.  Capable of from of joint above and below bone.,MUSCLE:  ,No crepitation, defect, tenderness, masses or swellings.  No loss of muscle tone or strength.,LYMPHATIC:,  Palpation of neck reveals no swelling or tenderness of neck nodes.  Palpation of groin reveals no swelling or tenderness of groin nodes.
INDICATION: , Iron deficiency anemia.,PROCEDURE:  ,Colonoscopy with terminal ileum examination.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Normal examination.,WITHDRAWAL TIME: , 15 minutes.,SCOPE: , CF-H180AL.,MEDICATIONS: , Fentanyl 100 mcg and versed 10 mg.,PROCEDURE DETAIL:  ,Following the preprocedure patient assessment the procedure, goals, risks including bleeding, perforation, missed polyp rate as well as side effects of medications and alternatives were reviewed.  Questions were answered.  Pause preprocedure was performed.,Following titrated intravenous sedation the flexible video endoscope was introduced into the rectum and advanced to the cecum without difficulty.  The ileocecal valve looked normal.  Preparation was fair allowing examination of 85% of mucosa after washing and cleaning with tap water through the scope.  The terminal ileum was intubated through the ileocecal valve for a 5 cm extent.  Terminal ileum mucosa looked normal.,Then the scope was withdrawn while examining the mucosa carefully including the retroflexed views of the rectum.  No polyp, no diverticulum and no bleeding source was identified.,The patient was assessed upon completion of the procedure.  Okay to discharge once criteria met.  ,RECOMMENDATIONS:,  Follow up with primary care physician.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Left cervical radiculopathy.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  ,Left cervical radiculopathy.,PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,1.  C5-C6 anterior cervical discectomy.,2.  Bone bank allograft.,3.  Anterior cervical plate.,TUBES AND DRAINS LEFT IN PLACE: , None.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,SPECIMEN SENT TO PATHOLOGY: , None.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal.,INDICATIONS: , This is a middle-aged man who presented to me with left arm pain.  He had multiple levels of disease, but clinically, it was C6 radiculopathy.  We tested him in the office and he had weakness referable to that nerve.  The procedure was done at that level.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , The patient was taken to the operating room at which time an intravenous line was placed.  General endotracheal anesthesia was obtained.  He was positioned supine in the operative area and the right neck was prepared.,An incision was made and carried down to the ventral spine on the right in the usual manner.  An x-ray confirmed our location.,We were impressed by the degenerative change and the osteophyte overgrowth.,As we had excepted, the back of the disk space was largely closed off by osteophytes.  We patiently drilled through them to the posterior ligament.  We went through that until we saw the dura.,We carefully went to the patient's symptomatic, left side.  The C6 foramen was narrowed by uncovertebral joint overgrowth.  The foramen was open widely.,An allograft was placed.  An anterior Steffee plate was placed.  Closure was commenced.,The wound was closed in layers with Steri-Strips on the skin.  A dressing was applied.,It should be noted that the above operation was done also with microscopic magnification and illumination.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is an 85-year-old gentleman who has a history of sick sinus syndrome for which he has St. Jude permanent pacemaker.  Pacemaker battery has reached end of life and the patient is dependent on his pacemaker with 100% pacing in the right ventricle.  He also has a fairly advanced degree of Alzheimer's dementia and is living in an assisted care facility.  The patient is unable to make his own health care decision and his daughter ABC has medical power of attorney.  The patient's dementia has resulted in the patient's having sufficient and chronic anger and his daughter that he refuses to speak with her, refuses to be in a same room with her.  For this reason the Casa Grande Regional Medical Center would obtain surgical and anesthesia consent from the patient's daughter in the fashion keeps the patient and daughter separated.  Furthermore it is important to note that his degree of dementia has disabled the patient to adequately self monitor his status following surgery for significant changes and to seek appropriate medical care, hence he will be admitted after the pacemaker exchange.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,1.  Sick sinus syndrome, pacemaker dependence with 100% with right ventricular pacing.,2.  Dementia of Alzheimer's disease.,3.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.,4.  Multiple pacemaker implantation and exchanges.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Unobtainable.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , The patient resides full time at ABC supervised living facility.  He is nonsmoker, nondrinker.  He uses wheelchair and moves himself about with his feet.  He is independent of activities of daily living and dependent on independent activities of daily living.,ALLERGIES TO MEDICATIONS: , No known drug allergies.,MEDICATIONS:  ,Omeprazole 20 mg p.o. daily, furosemide 20 mg p.o. daily, citalopram 20 mg p.o. daily, loratadine 10 mg p.o. p.r.n.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , A 10 systems review negative for chest pain, pressure, shortness of breath, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, orthopnea, syncope, near-syncopal episodes.  Negative for recent falls.  Positive for significant memory loss.  All other review of systems is negative.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  The patient is an 85-year-old gentleman in no acute distress, sitting in the wheelchair.,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure is 118/68, pulse is 80 and regular, respirations 16, weight is 200 pounds, oxygen saturation is 90% on room air.,HEENT:  Head atraumatic and normocephalic.  Eyes, pupils are equal and reactive to light and accommodate bilaterally, free from focal lesions.  Ears, nose, mouth, and throat.,NECK:  Supple.  No lymphadenopathy, thyromegaly, or thyroid masses appreciated.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  No JVD or no jugular venous distention.  No carotid bruits bilaterally.  Pacemaker pocket right upper thorax with healed surgical incisions.  S1 and S2 are normal.  No S3 or S4.  There are no murmurs.  No heaves or thrills, gout, or gallops.  Trace edema at dorsum of his feet and ankles.  Femoral pulses are present without bruits, posterior tibial pulses would be palpable bilaterally.,RESPIRATORY:  Breath sounds are clear but diminished throughout AP diameters expanded.  The patient speaks in full sentences.  No wheezing, no accessory muscles used for breathing.,GASTROINTESTINAL:  Abdomen is soft and nontender.  Bowel sounds are active in all 4 quadrants.  No palpable pulses.  No abdominal bruit is appreciated.  No hepatosplenomegaly.,GENITOURINARY:  Nonfocal.,MUSCULOSKELETAL:  Muscle strength in lower extremities is 4/5 bilaterally.  Upper extremities are 5/5 bilaterally with adequate range of motion.,SKIN:  Warm and dry.  No obvious rashes, lesions, or ulcerations. ,NEUROLOGIC:  Alert, not oriented to place and date.  His speech is clear.  There are no focal motor or sensory deficits.,PSYCHIATRIC:  Talkative, pleasant affect with limited impulse control, severe short-term memory loss.,LABORATORY DATA:,  Blood work dated 12/15/08, white count 4.7, hemoglobin 11.9, hematocrit 33.9, and platelets 115,000.  BUN 19, creatinine 1.15, glucose 94, potassium 4.5, sodium 140, and calcium 8.6.,DIAGNOSTIC DATA:,  St. Jude pacemaker interrogation dated 11/10/08 shows single chamber pacemaker and VVIR mode, implant date 08/2000, 100% paced in right ventricle, battery status is ERI.  A 12-lead ECG 12/15/08 shows 100% paced rhythm with rate of 80.  No Q waves at the baseline of atrial fibrillation.  Last measured ejection fraction 40% 12/08 with no significant decompensation.,IMPRESSION/PLAN:,1.  Sick sinus syndrome.,2.  Atrial fibrillation.,3.  Pacemaker dependent.,4.  Mild cardiomyopathy with ejection fraction 40% and no significant decompensation.,5.  Pacemaker battery end of life requiring exchange.,6.  Dementia of Alzheimer's disease with short and long term memory dysfunction.  The dementia disables the patient from recognizing changes in his health status in knowing if he needed to seek appropriate health care.  Dementia also renders the patient incapable informed consent, schedule the patient for pacemaker.  I explain the patient and reimplantation with any device in the surgical suite.  He will require anesthesia assistance for adequate sedation as the patient possesses behavioral risk secondary to his advanced dementia.,7.  Admit the patient after surgery for postoperative care and monitoring.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Left nasolabial fold scar deformity with effacement of alar crease.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Left nasolabial fold scar deformity with effacement of alar crease.,PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,1.  Left midface elevation with nasolabial fold elevation.,2.  Left nasolabial fold z-plasty and right symmetrization midface elevation.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal intubation.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Less than 25 mL.,FLUIDS: , Crystalloid,CULTURES TAKEN: , None.,PATIENT'S CONDITION: , Stable.,IMPLANTS: , Coapt Endotine Midface B 4.5 bioabsorbable implants, reference #CFD0200197, lot #01447 used on the right and used on the left side.,IDENTIFICATION: , This patient is well known to the Stanford Plastic Surgery Service.  The patient is status post resection of the dorsal nasal sidewall skin cancer with nasolabial flap reconstruction with subsequent deformity.  In particular, the patient has had effacement of his alar crease with deepening of his nasolabial fold and notable asymmetry.  The patient was seen in consultation and felt to be a surgical candidate for improvement.  Risks and benefits of the operation were described to the patient in detail including, but not limited to bleeding, infection, scarring, possible damage to surrounding structures including neurovascular structures, need for revision of surgery, continued asymmetry, and anesthetic complication.  The patient understood these risks and benefits and consented to the operation.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was taken to OR and placed supine on the operating table.  Dose of antibiotics was given to the patient.  Compression devices were placed on the lower extremities to prevent the knee embolic events.  The patient was turned to 180 degrees.  The ETT tube was secured and the area was then prepped and draped in usual sterile fashion.  A head wrap was then placed on the position and we then began our local.  Of note, the patient had previous incisions just lateral to his lateral canthus bilaterally and that were used for access.  Local consisting a 50:50 mix of 0.25% Marcaine with epinephrine and 1% lidocaine with epinephrine was then injected into the subperiosteal plane taking care to prevent injury to the infraorbital nerves.  This was done bilaterally.  We then marked the nasolabial fold and began with the elevation of the left midface.,We began with a lateral canthal-type incision extending out over his previous incision down to subcutaneous tissue.  We continued down to the lateral orbital rim until we identified periosteum.  We then pulled in a periosteal elevator and elevated the midface down over the zygoma elevating some lateral mesenteric attachments down over the buccal region until we felt we had reached pass the nasolabial folds medially.  Care was taken to preserve the infraorbital nerve and that was visualized after elevation.  We then released the periosteum distally and retracted up on the periosteum and noted improved contour of the nasolabial fold with increased bulk over the midface region over the zygoma.,We then used our Endotine Coapt device to engage the periosteum at the desired location and then elevated the midface and secured into position using the Coapt bioabsorbable screw.  After this was then carried out, we then clipped and cut as well as the end of the screw.  Satisfied with this, we then elevated the periosteum and secured it to reinforce our midface elevation to the lateral orbital rim and this was done using 3-0 Monocryl.  Several sutures were then used to anchor the orbicularis and deeper tissue to create additional symmetry.  Excess skin along the incision was then removed as well the skin from just lateral to the canthus.  Care was taken to leave the orbicularis muscle down.  We then continued closing our incision using absorbable plain gut 5-0 sutures for the subciliary-type incision and then continuing with interrupted 6-0 Prolenes lateral to the canthus.,We then turned our attention to performing the z-plasty portion of the case.  A z-plasty was designed along the previous scar where it was padding to the notable scar deformity and effacement of crease and the z-plasty was then designed to lengthen along the scar to improve the contour.  This was carried out using a 15 blade down to subcutaneous tissue.  The flaps were debulked slightly to reduce the amount of fullness and then transposed and sutured into place using chromic suture.  At this point, we then noted that he had improvement of the nasal fold but continued asymmetry with regards to improved bulk on the left side and less bulk on the right and it was felt that a symmetrization procedure was required to make more symmetry with the midface bilaterally and nasolabial folds bilaterally.  As such, we then carried out the dissection after injecting local as noted and we used a 15 blade scalpel to create our incision along the lateral canthus along its preexisting incision.  We carried this down to the lateral orbital rim again elevating the periosteum taking care to preserve infraorbital nerve.,At this point, we then released the periosteum distally just at the level of the nasolabial fold and placed our Endotine midface implant into the desired area and then elevated slightly just for symmetry only.  This was then secured in place using the bioabsorbable screw and then resected a very marginal amount of tissue just for removal of the dog ear deformity and closed the deeper layers of tissue using 3-0 PDS and then closing the extension to the subciliary area using 5-0 plain gut and then 6-0 Prolene lateral to the canthus.,At this point, we felt that we had achieved improved contour, improved symmetry, and decreased effacement of the nasolabial fold and alar crease.  Satisfied with our procedures, we then placed cool compresses on to the eyes.,The patient was then extubated and brought to the PACU in stable condition.,Dr. X was present and scrubbed for the entire case and actively participated during all key elements.  Dr. Y was available and participated in the portions of the case as well.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Septic left total knee arthroplasty.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Septic left total knee arthroplasty.,OPERATION PERFORMED: , Arthroscopic irrigation and debridement of same with partial synovectomy.,ANESTHESIA:,  LMA.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:,  Minimal.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,DRAINS:,  None.,INDICATIONS:,  The patient is an 81-year-old female, who is approximately 10 years status post total knee replacement performed in another state, who presented a couple of days ago to the office with worsening pain without injury and whose symptoms have been present for approximately a month following a possible urinary tract infection.  The patient' knee was aspirated in the office and cultures were positive for Escherichia coli.  She presents for operative therapy.,DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION: , After obtaining informed consent and the administration of antibiotics since her cultures had already been obtained, the patient was taken to the operating room and following satisfactory induction and the patient was placed on the table in supine position.  The left upper extremity was prepped and draped without a tourniquet.  The knee was injected with 30 mL of normal saline and standard arthroscopy portals were created.  The arthroscopy was inserted and a complete diagnostic was performed.  Arthroscopic pictures were taken throughout the procedure.  The knee was copiously irrigated with 9 L of irrigant.  A partial synovectomy was performed in all compartments.  Minimal amount of polyethylene wear was noted.  The total knee components were identified arthroscopically for future revision surgery.  The knee was then drained and the arthroscopic instruments were removed.  The portals were closed with 4-0 nylon and local anesthetic was injected.  A sterile dressing was applied and the patient was placed in a knee immobilizer, awakened from anesthesia and transported to the recovery room in stable condition and tolerated the procedure well.
SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient's assistant brings in her food diary sheets.  The patient says she stays active by walking at the mall.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight today is 201 pounds, which is down 3 pounds in the past month.  She has lost a total of 24 pounds.  I praised this and encouraged her to continue.  I went over her food diary.  I praised her three-meal pattern and all of her positive food choices, especially the use of sugar-free Kool-Aid, sugar-free Jell-O, sugar-free lemonade, diet pop, as well as the variety of foods she is using in her three-meal pattern.  I encouraged her to continue all of this.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient has been successful with weight loss due to assistance from others in keeping a food diary, picking lower-calorie items, her three-meal pattern, getting a balanced diet, and all her physical activity.  She needs to continue all this.,PLAN:,  Followup is set for 06/13/05 to check the patient's weight, her food diary, and answer any questions.
SUBJECTIVE: , The patient is admitted for shortness of breath, continues to do fairly well.  The patient has chronic atrial fibrillation, on anticoagulation, INR of 1.72.  The patient did undergo echocardiogram, which shows aortic stenosis, severe.  The patient does have an outside cardiologist.  I understand she was scheduled to undergo workup in this regard.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  Pulse of 78 and blood pressure 130/60.,LUNGS:  Clear.,HEART:  A soft systolic murmur in the aortic area.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.,EXTREMITIES:  No edema.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Status shortness of breath responding well to medical management.,2.  Atrial fibrillation, chronic, on anticoagulation.,3.  Aortic stenosis.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1.  Continue medications as above.,2.  The patient would like to follow with her cardiologist regarding aortic stenosis.  She may need a surgical intervention in this regard, which I explained to her.  The patient will be discharged home on medical management and she has an appointment to see her cardiologist in the next few days.,In the interim, if she changes her mind or if she has any concerns, I have requested to call me back.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Stenosing tendinosis, right thumb (trigger finger).,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Stenosing tendinosis, right thumb (trigger finger).,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,  Release of A1 pulley, right thumb.,ANESTHESIA:,  IV regional with sedation.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Minimal.,TOURNIQUET TIME: , Approximately 20 minutes at 250 mmHg.,INTRAOPERATIVE FINDINGS: , There was noted to be thickening of the A1 pulley.  There was a fibrous nodule noted within the flexor tendon of the thumb, which caused triggering sensation to the thumb.,HISTORY:  ,This is a 51-year-old right hand dominant female with a longstanding history of pain as well as locking sensation to her right thumb.  She was actually able to spontaneously trigger the thumb.  She was diagnosed with stenosing tendinosis and wishes to proceed with release of A1 pulley.  All risks and benefits of the surgery was discussed with her at length.  She was in agreement with the above treatment plan.,PROCEDURE:  ,On 08/21/03, she was taken to operating room at ABCD General Hospital and placed supine on the operating table.  A regional anesthetic was applied by the Anesthesia Department.  Tourniquet was placed on her proximal arm.  The upper extremity was sterilely prepped and draped in the usual fashion.,An incision was made over the proximal crease of the thumb.  Subcuticular tissues were carefully dissected.  Hemostasis was controlled with electrocautery.  The nerves were identified and retracted throughout the entire procedure.  The fibers of the A1 pulley were identified.  They were sharply dissected to release the tendon.  The tendon was then pulled up into the wound and inspected.  There was no evidence of gross tear noted.  Fibrous nodule was noted within the tendon itself.  There was no evidence of continuous locking.  Once release of the pulley had been performed, the wound was copiously irrigated.  It was then reapproximated using #5-0 nylon simple interrupted and horizontal mattress sutures.  Sterile dressing was applied to the upper extremity.  Tourniquet was deflated.  It was noted that the thumb was warm and pink with good capillary refill.  The patient was transferred to Recovery in apparent stable and satisfactory condition.  Prognosis is fair.
REASON FOR REFERRAL: , Facial twitching.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient had several episodes where she felt like her face was going to twitch, which she could suppress it with grimacing movements of her mouth and face.  She reports she is still having right posterior head pressure like sensations approximately one time per week.  These still are characterized by a tingling, pressure like sensation that often has a feeling as though water is running down on her hair.  This has also decreased in frequency occurring approximately one time per week and seems to respond to over-the-counter analgesics such as Aleve.  Lastly during conversation today, she brought again the problem of daydreaming at work and noted that she occasionally falls asleep when sitting in non-stimulating environments or in front of the television.  She states that she feels fatigued all the time and does not get good sleep.  She describes it as insomnia, but upon questioning she works from 4 till mid night and then gets home and cannot go to sleep for approximately two hours and wakes up reliably by 9.00 a.m. each morning and sleeps no more than five to six hours ever, but usually five hours.  Her sleep is relatively uninterrupted except for the need to get up and go to the bathroom.  She thinks she may snore, but she is not sure.  She does not recall any events of awakening and gasping for breath.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Please see my earlier notes in chart.,FAMILY HISTORY:  ,Please see my earlier notes in chart.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , Please see my earlier notes in charts.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  ,Today, she mainly endorses the tingling sensation in the right posterior head often bilateral as well as a diagnosis of depression and persistent somewhat sad mood, poor sleep, and possible snoring; otherwise, the 10-system review is negative.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General Examination:  Unremarkable mainly for mild-to-moderate obesity with a weight of 258 pounds.  Otherwise, general examination is unremarkable.,NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:  ,As before is nonfocal.  Please see note in chart for details.,PERTINENT FINDINGS: , Since the last evaluation, she has had an MRI performed, which was largely unremarkable except for a 1.2 cm lobular T2 hyperintense abnormality at the right clivus and petrous carotid canal, which does not enhance.  The nature of this lesion is unclear.  Certainly, this abnormality would not explain her left facial twitching and is unlikely to be involved with the right posterior sensory changes she experiences.,LABS: , She was supposed to have Lyme titers and thyroid tests as well as fasting glucose, which were not done; however, in light of her improvement these may not need to be performed at this time.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Left facial twitching-appears to be improving.  Most likely, this is a peripheral nerve injury related to her abscess as previously described.  In light of her negative MRI and clinical improvement, we discussed options and elected to just observe for now.,2.  Posterior pressure like headache, also appears to be improving.  The etiology is unclear, but as it responds nicely to nonsteroidal antiinflammatories and is decreasing, no further evaluation is needed.,3.  Probable circadian sleep disorder related to her nighttime work schedule and awakening at 9.00 a.m. with insufficient sleep.  There is also the possibility of consistent obstructive sleep apnea and if symptoms worsen then we should consider doing a sleep study.  For the time being, sleep hygiene measures were discussed with the patient including trying to sleep later at least till 10.00 a.m. or 10.30 to get a full-night sleep.  She is on vacation next week and is going to try to see if this will help.  We also discussed as before weight loss and exercise, which could be helpful.,4.  Right clivus and petrous lesion of unknown etiology.  We will repeat the MRI at four months to see for interval change.,5.  The patient voiced understanding of these plans and will be following up with me in five months.
CHIEF COMPLAINT (1/1): , This 19 year old female presents today complaining of acne from continually washing area, frequent phone use so the receiver rubs on face and oral contraceptive use.  Location:  She indicates the problem location is the chin, right temple and left temple locally.  Severity:  Severity of condition is worsening.,Menses:  Onset:  13 years old.  Interval:  22-27 days.  Duration:  4-6 days.  Flow:  light.  Complications:  none.,ALLERGIES: , Patient admits allergies to penicillin resulting in difficulty breathing.,MEDICATION HISTORY:,  Patient is currently taking Alesse-28, 20 mcg-0.10 mg tablet usage started on 08/07/2001 medication was prescribed by Obstetrician-Gynecologist A.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Female Reproductive Hx: (+) birth control pill use, Childhood Illnesses: (+) chickenpox, (+) measles.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:,  No previous surgeries.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Patient admits a family history of anxiety, stress disorder associated with mother.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Patient admits caffeine use She consumes 3-5 servings per day, Patient admits alcohol use Drinking is described as social, Patient admits good diet habits, Patient admits exercising regularly, Patient denies STD history.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Integumentary: (+) periodic reddening of face, (+) acne problems, Allergic /,Immunologic: (-) allergic or immunologic symptoms, Constitutional Symptoms: (-) constitutional symptoms,such as fever, headache, nausea, dizziness.,PHYSICAL EXAM:,  Patient is a 19 year old female who appears pleasant, in no apparent distress, her given age, well developed, well nourished and with good attention to hygiene and body habitus.  Skin:  Examination of scalp shows no abnormalities.  Hair growth and distribution is normal.  Inspection of skin outside of affected area reveals no abnormalities.  Palpation of skin shows no abnormalities.  Inspection of eccrine and apocrine glands shows no evidence of hyperidrosis, chromidrosis or bromhidrosis.  Face shows keratotic papule.,IMPRESSION:,  Acne vulgaris.,PLAN:,  Recommended treatment is antibiotic therapy.  Patient received extensive counseling about acne.  She understands acne treatment is usually long-term.  Return to clinic in 4 week (s).,PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS:,  Patient received literature regarding acne vulgaris.  Discussed with the patient the prescription for Tetracycline and handed out information regarding the side effects and the proper method of ingestion.,PRESCRIPTIONS:,  Tetracycline  Dosage:  250 mg capsule  Sig:  BID  Dispense:  60  Refills:  0  Allow Generic:  Yes
REASON FOR REFERRAL: , Elevated BNP.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  The patient is a 95-year-old Caucasian male visiting from out of state, admitted because of the fall and could not get up and has a cough with dark color sputum, now admitted with pneumonia and a fall and the patient's BNP level was high, for which Cardiology consult was requested.  The patient denies any chest pain or shortness of breath.  Chest x-ray and CAT scan shows possible pneumonia.  The patient denies any prior history of coronary artery disease but has a history of hypertension.,ALLERGIES: , No known drug allergies.,MEDICATIONS:,  At this time, he is on:,1.  Atrovent and albuterol nebulizers.,2.  Azithromycin.,3.  Potassium chloride 10 mEq p.o. daily.,4.  Furosemide 20 mg IV daily.,5.  Enoxaparin 40 mg daily.,6.  Lisinopril 10 mg p.o. daily.,7.  Ceftriaxone.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , History of hypertension.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:,  History of abdominal surgery.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , He does not smoke.  Drinks occasionally.,FAMILY HISTORY:  ,Noncontributory.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , Denies chest pain, PND, or orthopnea.  He has cough.  No fever.  No abdominal pain.  No syncope, near-syncope, or palpitation.  All other systems were reviewed.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  The patient is comfortable, not in distress.,VITAL SIGNS:  His blood pressure is 118/50, pulse rate 76, respiratory rate 18, and temperature 98.1.,HEENT:  Atraumatic, normocephalic.  Eyes PERRLA.,NECK:  Supple.  No JVD.  No carotid bruit.,CHEST:  Clear.,HEART:  S1 and S2, regular.  No S3.  No S4.  No murmur.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender.  Positive bowel sounds.,EXTREMITIES:  No cyanosis, clubbing, or edema.  Pulse 2+.,CNS:  Alert, awake, and oriented x3.,DIAGNOSTIC DATA:,  EKG shows sinus tachycardia, nonspecific ST-T changes, nonspecific intraventricular conduction delay.  CT chest shows bilateral pleural effusion, compressive atelectasis, pneumonic infiltrate noted in the right lower lobe.  Loculated pleural effusion in the left upper lobe.  No PE.  Chest x-ray shows bilateral lower lobe patchy opacities concerning for atelectasis or pneumonia.,LABORATORY DATA: , Sodium 139, potassium 4.1, BUN 26, creatinine 0.9, BNP 331, troponin less than 0.05.  White cell count 7.1, hemoglobin 11.5, hematocrit 35.2, platelet 195,000.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Pneumonia.,2.  Diastolic heart failure, not contributing to his present problem.,3.  Hypertension, controlled.,4.  History of falls.,PLAN: , We will continue IV low-dose diuretics, continue lisinopril, continue IV antibiotics.  No further cardiac workup at this time.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Microscopic hematuria.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Microscopic hematuria with lateral lobe obstruction, mild.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Flexible cystoscopy.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,CONDITION: , Stable.,PROCEDURE: , The patient was placed in the supine position and sterilely prepped and draped in the usual fashion.  After 2% lidocaine was instilled, the anterior urethra is normal.  The prostatic urethra reveals mild lateral lobe obstruction.  There are no bladder tumors noted.,IMPRESSION:,  The patient has some mild benign prostatic hyperplasia.  At this point in time, we will continue with conservative observation.,PLAN: , The patient will follow up as needed.
FINAL DIAGNOSES:,1.  Herniated nucleuses pulposus, C5-6 greater than C6-7, left greater than C4-5 right with left radiculopathy.,2.  Moderate stenosis C5-6.,OPERATION: , On 06/25/07, anterior cervical discectomy and fusions C4-5, C5-6, C6-7 using Bengal cages and Slimlock plate C4 to C7; intraoperative x-ray.,This is a 60-year-old white male who was in the office on 05/01/07 because of neck pain with left radiculopathy and "tension headaches."  In the last year or so, he has had more and more difficulty and more recently has developed tingling and numbness into the fingers of the left hand greater than right.  He has some neck pain at times and has seen Dr. X for an epidural steroid injection, which was very helpful.  More recently he saw Dr. Y and went through some physical therapy without much relief.,Cervical MRI scan was obtained and revealed a large right-sided disc herniation at C4-5 with significant midline herniations at C5-6 and a large left HNP at C6-7.  In view of the multiple levels of pathology, I was not confident that anything short of surgical intervention would give him significant relief.  The procedure and its risk were fully discussed and he decided to proceed with the operation.,HOSPITAL COURSE: , Following admission, the procedure was carried out without difficulty.  Blood loss was about 125 cc.  Postop x-ray showed good alignment and positioning of the cages, plate, and screws.  After surgery, he was able to slowly increase his activity level with assistance from physical therapy.  He had some muscle spasm and soreness between the shoulder blades and into the back part of his neck.  He also had some nausea with the PCA.  He had a low-grade fever to 100.2 and was started on incentive spirometry.  Over the next 12 hours, his fever resolved and he was able to start getting up and around much more easily.,By 06/27/07, he was ready to go home.  He has been counseled regarding wound care and has received a neck sheet for instruction.  He will be seen in two weeks for wound check and for a followup evaluation/x-rays in about six weeks.  He has prescriptions for Lortab 7.5 mg and Robaxin 750 mg.  He is to call if there are any problems.
REASON FOR REFERRAL: , The patient was referred to me by Dr. X of the Hospitalist Service at Children's Hospital due to a recent admission for pseudoseizures.  This was a 90-minute initial intake completed on 10/19/2007 with the patient's mother.  I have reviewed with her the boundaries of confidentiality and the treatment consent form, and she stated that she had understood these concepts.,PRESENTING PROBLEM: , It is reported that the patient was recently hospitalized and has been hospitalized in 2 occasions for pseudoseizure activity.  These were confirmed by video EEG and consist of trembling, shaking, and things of that nature.  She does have a history of focal seizures and perhaps simple seizures, which were diagnosed when she was 5 years old, but the seizure activity that was documented during the hospital stay is of a significant different quality.  I had met with them in the hospital and introduced myself and gathered some basic background information, but this is a supplement to that information, which is contained within this chart.  It was reported to me that she has been under considerable stress.  First of all, it should be noted that the patient is developmentally delayed.  Although she is 17 years old, she operates at about a fourth grade level.  Mother reported that The patient becomes stressed because she thinks that everyone is against her, that she cannot do anything unless someone is there, that she needs a lot of direction, that she gets confused easily, that she thinks that people become angry at her, that she misinterprets what people are saying and thinks that they are upset.  It is reported, the patient feels that her mother yells at her, and that is mad at her often.  It was reported that in addition she recently has had change in her visitation with her father, that she within the last 6 months, has started seeing her father every other weekend after he had been discharged from prison.  She reported that what is stress for her is that sometimes he does not always show up for visits or is late and that upsets her a lot and that she is upset when she has to leave him, also additional stressor is at school.  She reports that she has no friends that she feels unwanted and picked on.  She gets confused easily at school, worries about things, and believes that the teachers become angry with her.  In regards to her mood, mother reported that she is usually happy, unless things do not go her way, and then, she becomes upset and says that nobody cares about her.  She sits in the couch, she become angry, does not speak.  Mother sends her to her room, and she calms down, takes a couple of deep breaths, and that passes.  It is reported that the patient has "always been this way" and that is not a change in her behavior.  Mother did think that she did seem a little more depressed, that she seems more lonely.  Over the last few months, she has seemed a little bit more down because she does not have any friends and that she is bored.  Mother reported that she frequently complains of being bored, but has always been this way.  No sleep disturbance was noted.  No changes in weight.  No suicidal ideation.  No deficits in energy were noted.  Mother did report that she does tend to worry, but her worries tend to be because she gets confused, does not understand what she needs to do, and is quite rigid, but mother did not feel that the worry was actually affecting her functioning on a daily basis.,DEVELOPMENTAL HISTORY:,  The patient was the 5 pound 12 ounce product of an unplanned pregnancy and normal spontaneous vaginal delivery.  She was delivered at 36 weeks' gestation.  Mother reported that she received prenatal care.  Difficulties during the pregnancy were denied.  The use of drugs, alcohol, tobacco during the pregnancy were denied.  No eating or sleeping difficulties during the perinatal period were reported.  Temperament was described as easy.  The patient is described as a cuddly baby.  In terms of serious injuries, they were denied.  Serious illnesses:  She has been diagnosed since age 5 with seizures.  Mother was not able to tell me the exact kind of seizures, but it would appear from I could gather that they are focal seizures and possibly simple-to-complex partial seizures.  The patient does not have a history of allergy or toileting problems.  She is currently taking Trileptal 450 mg b.i.d., and she is currently taking Depakote, although she is going to be weaned off the Depakote by her neurologist.  She is taking Prevacid and ibuprofen.  The neurologist that she sees is Dr. Y here at Children's Hospital.,FAMILY BACKGROUND:,  In terms of family background, the patient lives with her mother age 38 and her mother's partner, who is age 40, and with her 16-year-old sister who does not have any developmental delays.  Mother had been married to the patient's father, but they were together as a couple beginning 1990, married in 1997, separated in 2002, and divorced in 2003; he lives in the ABC area and visits them every other Saturday, but there are no overnight visits.  The paternal grandparents are both living here in California, but are separated.  They are 3 paternal uncles and 2 paternal aunts.  In terms of the maternal family, maternal grandmother and grandfather are deceased.  Maternal grandfather deceased in 1991 due to cancer.  Maternal grandmother deceased in 2001 due to cancer.  There are 5 maternal aunts and 2 maternal uncles, all who live in California.  She reported that the patient is particularly close to her maternal aunt, whose name is Carmen.  Mother's partner had been married previously; he has 2 children from that relationship, a 23-year-old, and a 20-year-old female, who really are not part of the patient's daily life.  In terms of other family background, it was reported that the mother's partner gets frustrated with The patient, does not completely understand the degree of her delay and how that may affect her ability to do things as well as her interpretation of things.  The sister was described as having some resentment towards her older sister, that she feels like she was just to watch out for her, care for her, and that sister has always wanted to follow her around and do the things that she does.  The biological father allegedly was in jail for a year due to drug possession.  Mother reported that he had a problem with methamphetamine.  In addition, she reported there is an accusation that he had molested their niece; however, she stated that there was a trial, and he was found to be not guilty of that.  She stated there was no evidence that he had ever molested the patient or her sister.  There had been quite a bit of chaos in the family when the mother and father were together.  There was a lot of arguing.  There were a lot of moves, there was domestic violence both from father to mother and mother to father consisting mostly of pushing and shoving by mother's report.  The patient did observe this.  After the separation, it was reported that there were continued difficulties that the father took the patient and her sister from school without mother's knowledge and had filed to get custody of them and actually ended up having custody of them for a month, and told the patient and her sister that the mother had abandoned them.  Mother reported that they went to court, and there was a court order giving the mother custody back after the father went to jail.  Mother stated that was approximately 5 years ago.  In terms of current, mother reports that she currently works 2 jobs from 8 to 5 on Monday and Friday and from 6 to 10 on Monday, Wednesday's, and Friday's, but she does have the weekends off.  The patient was reported also to have a job through her school on several weeknights.,Mother reported that she graduated from high school, had a year of college.  She was an average student, had learning difficulties in reading.  No psychological or drug or alcohol history was reported by mother.  In terms of the biological father, mother stated that he graduated from high school, had a couple of years of college, was a good student, no learning problems or psychological problems for him were reported.  Mother reported that he had a history of methamphetamine use.,Other psychiatric history in the family was denied.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , She reported that the patient feels like she does not have any friends, that she is lonely and bored, really does not do much for fun.  Her fun consists primarily of doing crafts with mother, sewing, painting, drawing, beadwork, and things like that.  It was reported that she really feels that she is bored and does not have much to do.,ACADEMIC BACKGROUND:  ,The patient is in the 11th grade at High School.  She has 2 regular education classes, mother could not tell me what they were, but the rest of her classes are special education.  Mother could not tell me what her IQ was, although she noticed she works at about a 4th or 5th grade level.  Mother reported that the terminology most often used with the patient was developmental delay.  Her counselor's name is Mr. XYZ, but she reported that overall she is a good student, but she does have sometimes some difficulties at school, becoming upset or angry regarding the little things that she does not seem to understand.  It is reported that the patient feels that she has no friends at school that she is lonely, and that is she does not really care for school.  She reported that the patient is involved in a work program through the school where she works at Pet Extreme on Mondays and Wednesdays from 3 to 8 p.m. where she stocks shelves.  It is reported that she does not like to go to school because she feels like nobody likes her.  She is not involved in any kind of clubs or groups at school.  Mother reported that she is also not receiving CVRC services.,PREVIOUS COUNSELING: , Mother reported that she has been in counseling before, but mother could not give me any information about that, who did the counseling, or what it was about.  She does receive evidently some peer counseling at school because she gets upset and needs help in calming down.,DIAGNOSTIC SUMMARY AND IMPRESSION:,  It appears that the patient best qualifies for a diagnosis of conversion disorder, and information from Neurology suggests that the "seizure episodes" are not true seizures, but appear to be pseudoseizures.  The patient is experiencing quite bit of stress with a lot of changes in her life, also difficulty in functioning likely due to her developmental delay makes it difficult for her to understand.,PLAN:,  My plan is to meet with the patient in approximately 1 to 2 weeks to complete a clinical interview with her, and then to begin teaching coping skills as well as explore ways for reducing her stress.,DSM IV DIAGNOSES:  ,AXIS I:  Conversion disorder (300.11).,AXIS II:  Diagnoses deferred.,AXIS III:  Seizure disorder.,AXIS IV:  Problems with primary support group, peer problems, and educational problems.,AXIS V:  Global assessment of functioning equals 60.
CC: ,Episodic confusion.,HX: ,This 65 y/o RHM reportedly suffered a stroke on 1/17/92. He presented locally at that time with complaint of episodic confusion and memory loss lasting several minutes per episode. The "stroke" was reportedly verified on MRI scan dated 1/17/92. He was subsequently placed on ASA and DPH. He admitted that there had been short periods (1-2 days duration) since then, during which he had forgotten to take his DPH. However, even when he had been taking his DPH regularly, he continued to experience the spells mentioned above. He denied any associated tonic/clonic movement, incontinence, tongue-biting, HA, visual change, SOB, palpitation, weakness or numbness. The episodes of confusion and memory loss last 1-2 minutes in duration, and have been occurring 2-3 times per week.,PMH:, Bilateral Hearing Loss of unknown etiology, S/P bilateral ear surgery many years ago.,MEDS:, DPH and ASA,SHX/FHX:, 2-4 Beers/day. 1-2 packs of cigarettes per day.,EXAM:, BP 111/68, P 68BPM, 36.8C. Alert and Oriented to person, place and time, 30/30 on mini-mental status test, Speech fluent and without dysarthria. CN: Left superior quandranopia only. Motor: 5/5 strength throughout. Sensory: unremarkable except for mild decreased vibration sense in feet. Coordination: unremarkable. Gait and station testing were unremarkable. He was able to tandem walk without difficulty. Reflexes: 2+ and symmetric throughout. Flexor plantar responses bilaterally.,LAB:, Gen Screen, CBC, PT, PTT all WNL. DPH 4.6mcg/ml.,Review of outside MRI Brain done 1/17/92 revealed decreased T1 and increased T2 signal in the Right temporal lobe involving the uncus and adjacent hippocampus. The area did not enhance with gadolinium contrast.,CXR:, 8/31/92: 5 x 6 mm spiculated opacity in apex right lung.,EEG:, 8/24/92: normal awake and asleep,MRI Brain with/without contrast: 8/31/92: Decreased T1 and increased T2 signal in the right temporal lobe. The lesion increased in size and enhances more greatly when compared to the 1/17/92 MRI exam. There is also edema surrounding the affected area and associated mass effect.,NEUROPSYCHOLOGICAL TESTING:, Low-average digit symbol substitution, mildly impaired verbal learning, and severely defective delayed recall. There was relative preservation of other cognitive functions. The findings were consistent with left mesiotemporal dysfunction.,COURSE: ,Patient underwent right temporal lobectomy on 9/16/92 following initial treatment with Decadron. Pathologic analysis was consistent with a Grade 2 astrocytoma. GFAP staining positive. Following surgery he underwent 5040 cGy radiation therapy in 28 fractions to the tumor bed.
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: , Left hip fracture.,CHIEF COMPLAINT: , Diminished function, secondary to the above.,HISTORY: , This pleasant 70-year-old gentleman had a ground-level fall at home on 05/05/03 and was brought into ABCD Medical Center, evaluated by Dr. X and brought in for orthopedic stay.  He had left hip fracture identified on x-rays at that time.  Pain and inability to ambulate brought him in.  He was evaluated and then underwent medical consultation as well, where they found a history of resolving pneumonia, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, congestive heart failure, hypothyroidism, depression, anxiety, seizure and chronic renal failure, as well as anemia.  His medical issues are under good control.  The patient underwent left femoral neck fixation with hemiarthroplasty on that left side on 05/06/03.  The patient has had some medical issues including respiratory insufficiency, perioperative anemia, pneumonia, and hypertension.  Cardiology has followed closely, and the patient has responded well to medical treatment, as well as physical therapy and occupational therapy.  He is gradually tolerating more activities with less difficulties, made good progress and tolerated more consistent and more prolonged interventions.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Positive for congestive heart failure, chronic renal insufficiency, azotemia, hyperglycemia, coronary artery disease, history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.  Remote history of subdural hematoma precluding the use of Coumadin.  History of depression, panic attacks on Doxepin.  Perioperative anemia.  Swallowing difficulties.,ALLERGIES:,  Zyloprim, penicillin, Vioxx, NSAIDs.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS,1.  Heparin.,2.  Albuterol inhaler.,3.  Combivent.,4.  Aldactone.,5.  Doxepin.,6.  Xanax.,7.  Aspirin.,8.  Amiodarone.,9.  Tegretol.,10.  Synthroid.,11.  Colace.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , Lives in a 1-story home with 1 step down; wife is there.  Speech and language pathology following with current swallowing dysfunction.  He is minimum assist for activities of daily living, bed mobility.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Currently negative for headache, nausea and vomiting, fevers, chills or shortness of breath or chest pain.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,HEENT:  Oropharynx clear.,CV:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs, rubs or gallops.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,ABDOMEN:  Nontender, nondistended.  Bowel sounds positive.,EXTREMITIES:  Without clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.,NEUROLOGIC:  There are no focal motor or sensory losses to the lower extremities.  Bulk and tone normal in the lower extremities.  Wound site has healed well with staples out.,IMPRESSION ,1.  Status post left hip fracture and hemiarthroplasty.,2.  History of panic attack, anxiety, depression.,3.  Myocardial infarction with stent placement.,4.  Hypertension.,5.  Hypothyroidism.,6.  Subdural hematoma.,7.  Seizures.,8.  History of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  Recent respiratory insufficiency.,9.  Renal insufficiency.,10.  Recent pneumonia.,11.  O2 requiring.,12.  Perioperative anemia.,PLAN: , Rehab transfer as soon as medically cleared.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , I have seen ABC today.  He is a very pleasant gentleman who is 42 years old, 344 pounds.  He is 5'9".  He has a BMI of 51.  He has been overweight for ten years since the age of 33, at his highest he was 358 pounds, at his lowest 260.  He is pursuing surgical attempts of weight loss to feel good, get healthy, and begin to exercise again.  He wants to be able to exercise and play volleyball.  Physically, he is sluggish.  He gets tired quickly.  He does not go out often.  When he loses weight he always regains it and he gains back more than he lost.  His biggest weight loss is 25 pounds and it was three months before he gained it back.  He did six months of not drinking alcohol and not taking in many calories.  He has been on multiple commercial weight loss programs including Slim Fast for one month one year ago and Atkin's Diet for one month two years ago.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , He has difficulty climbing stairs, difficulty with airline seats, tying shoes, used to public seating, difficulty walking, high cholesterol, and high blood pressure.  He has asthma and difficulty walking two blocks or going eight to ten steps.  He has sleep apnea and snoring.  He is a diabetic, on medication.  He has joint pain, knee pain, back pain, foot and ankle pain, leg and foot swelling.  He has hemorrhoids.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: , Includes orthopedic or knee surgery.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , He is currently single.  He drinks alcohol ten to twelve drinks a week, but does not drink five days a week and then will binge drink.  He smokes one and a half pack a day for 15 years, but he has recently stopped smoking for the past two weeks.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Obesity, heart disease, and diabetes.  Family history is negative for hypertension and stroke.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Include Diovan, Crestor, and Tricor.,MISCELLANEOUS/EATING HISTORY:  ,He says a couple of friends of his have had heart attacks and have had died.  He used to drink everyday, but stopped two years ago.  He now only drinks on weekends.  He is on his second week of Chantix, which is a medication to come off smoking completely.  Eating, he eats bad food.  He is single.  He eats things like bacon, eggs, and cheese, cheeseburgers, fast food, eats four times a day, seven in the morning, at noon, 9 p.m., and 2 a.m.  He currently weighs 344 pounds and 5'9".  His ideal body weight is 160 pounds.  He is 184 pounds overweight.  If he lost 70% of his excess body weight that would be 129 pounds and that would get him down to 215.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , Negative for head, neck, heart, lungs, GI, GU, orthopedic, or skin.  He also is positive for gout.  He denies chest pain, heart attack, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, pacemaker, pulmonary embolism, or CVA.  He denies venous insufficiency or thrombophlebitis.  Denies shortness of breath, COPD, or emphysema.  Denies thyroid problems, hip pain, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, GERD, hiatal hernia, peptic ulcer disease, gallstones, infected gallbladder, pancreatitis, fatty liver, hepatitis, rectal bleeding, polyps, incontinence of stool, urinary stress incontinence, or cancer.  He denies cellulitis, pseudotumor cerebri, meningitis, or encephalitis.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  ,He is alert and oriented x 3.  Cranial nerves II-XII are intact.  Neck is soft and supple.  Lungs:  He has positive wheezing bilaterally.  Heart is regular rhythm and rate.  His abdomen is soft.  Extremities:  He has 1+ pitting edema.,IMPRESSION/PLAN:,  I have explained to him the risks and potential complications of laparoscopic gastric bypass in detail and these include bleeding, infection, deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, leakage from the gastrojejuno-anastomosis, jejunojejuno-anastomosis, and possible bowel obstruction among other potential complications.  He understands.  He wants to proceed with workup and evaluation for laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass.  He will need to get a letter of approval from Dr. XYZ.  He will need to see a nutritionist and mental health worker.  He will need an upper endoscopy by either Dr. XYZ.  He will need to go to Dr. XYZ as he previously had a sleep study.  We will need another sleep study.  He will need H. pylori testing, thyroid function tests, LFTs, glycosylated hemoglobin, and fasting blood sugar.  After this is performed, we will submit him for insurance approval.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Wrist ganglion.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Wrist ganglion.,TITLE OF PROCEDURE: , Excision of dorsal wrist ganglion.,PROCEDURE: , After administering appropriate antibiotics and general anesthesia, the upper extremity was prepped and draped in the usual standard fashion.  The arm was exsanguinated with an Esmarch and tourniquet inflated to 250 mmHg.  I made a transverse incision directly over the ganglion.  Dissection was carried down through the extensor retinaculum, identifying the 3rd and the 4th compartments and retracting them.  I then excised the ganglion and its stalk.  In addition, approximately a square centimeter of the dorsal capsule was removed at the origin of stalk, leaving enough of a defect to prevent formation of a one-way valve.  We then identified the scapholunate ligament, which was uninjured.  I irrigated and closed in layers and injected Marcaine with epinephrine.  I dressed and splinted the wound.  The patient was sent to the recovery room in good condition, having tolerated the procedure well.
REASON FOR CONSULTATION: , Post-surgical medical management.,PROCEDURE DONE: , Right total knee replacement.,MEDICAL HISTORY:,1.  Arthritis of the right knee.,2.  Hypertension.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: , Hysterectomy, Cesarean section, left hip arthroplasty, and breast biopsy.,MEDICATIONS: , Hyzaar 12.5 mg p.o. daily, Femara 2.5 mg p.o. daily, Fosamax 70 mg p.o. every week, aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily, and vitamin.,ALLERGIES: , MORPHINE.,HISTORY OF PRESENT COMPLAINT: , This 84-year-old patient with history of arthritis underwent right total knee replacement yesterday.  The patient is admitted today to the surgical floor for postoperative management.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,CONSTITUTIONAL:  No fever, chills, or malaise.,ENT:  Unremarkable.,RESPIRATORY:  The patient denies shortness of breath, cough, or wheezing.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  No known heart problems.  No orthopnea, palpitations, syncopal episode, or pedal swelling.,GASTROINTESTINAL:  She denies nausea or vomiting.  No history of GI bleed.,GENITOURINARY:  No dysuria, no hematuria.,ENDOCRINE:  Negative for diabetes or thyroid problems.,NEUROLOGICAL:  No history of seizure or TIA.  Cognitive function is intact.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,The patient does not smoke.  She consumes alcohol moderately.,FAMILY HISTORY:  ,Positive for cancer.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  This is an 84-year-old lady who looks young for her age.,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure of 138/53, pulse is 73, respiratory rate of 20, and O2 saturation is 95% on room air.  She is afebrile.,HEAD AND NECK:  Face is symmetrical.  Cranial nerves are intact.  No distended neck veins.  No palpable neck masses.,CHEST:  Clear to auscultation.  No wheezing.  No crepitations.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  First and second heart sounds were heard.  No murmur is appreciated.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.  Bowel sounds are positive.,EXTREMITIES:  There is no pedal swelling.,LABORATORY DATA:  ,Hemoglobin has dropped from 12.6 to 10.2.  Hematocrit is 30.  Glucose is 125.  BUN is 15.9, creatinine is 0.6, sodium is 134, and potassium is 3.8.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Right knee arthritis status post right total knee replacement.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.,2.  Anemia due to stated operative blood loss, would not require transfusion at this point.,3.  Hypertension, under control.  Continue current home medications.,4.  Deep vein thrombosis risk, prophylaxis as per surgeon.,5.  Gastrointestinal prophylaxis.,6.  Debility.  Continue physical therapy and occupational therapy.
Patient had a normal MRI and normal neurological examination on August 24, 2010.,Assessment for peripheral vestibular function follows:,Most clinical tests were completed with difficulty and poor cooperation.,OTOSCOPY:, showed bilateral intact tympanic membranes with central  Weber test and bilateral positive Rinne.,ROMBERG TEST:, maintained postural stability with difficulty.,Frenzel glasses examination: no spontaneous, end gaze nystagmus.,DIX-HALLPIKE:, showed no positional nystagmus excluding benign paroxysmal positional vertigo.,HEAD SHAKING AND VESTIBULOCULAR REFLEX [HALMAGYI TEST]:, were done with difficulty a short corrective saccades may give the possibility if having a decompensated vestibular hypofunction. ,IMPRESSION:, Decompensation vestibular hypofunction documented by further electronystagmography and caloric testing. ,PLAN:,  Booked for electronystagmography and advised to continue with her vestibular rehabilitation exercises, in addition to supportive medical treatment in the form of betahistine 24 mg twice a day.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Gastrostomy (gastrocutaneous fistula).,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Gastrostomy (gastrocutaneous fistula).,OPERATION PERFORMED: , Surgical closure of gastrostomy.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,INDICATIONS: , This 1-year-old child had a gastrostomy placed due to feeding difficulties.  Since then, he has reached a point where he is now eating completely by mouth and no longer needed the gastrostomy.  The tube was, therefore, removed, but the tract has not shown signs of spontaneous closure.  He, therefore, comes to the operating room today for surgical closure of his gastrostomy.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: , After the induction of general anesthetic, the abdomen was prepped and draped in the usual manner.  An elliptical incision was made around the gastrostomy site and carried down through skin and subcutaneous tissue with sharp dissection.  The tract and the stomach were freed.  Stay sutures were then placed on either side of the tract.  The tract was amputated.  The intervening stomach was then closed with interrupted #4-0 Lembert, Nurolon sutures.  The fascia was then closed over the stomach using #3-0 Vicryl sutures.  The skin was closed with #5-0 subcuticular Monocryl.  A dressing was applied, and the child was awakened and taken to the recovery room in satisfactory condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Cervical carcinoma in situ.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Cervical carcinoma in situ.,OPERATION PERFORMED:,  Cervical cone biopsy, dilatation & curettage.,SPECIMENS:  ,Cone biopsy, endocervical curettings, endometrial curettings.,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: , The patient recently presented with a Pap smear showing probable adenocarcinoma in situ.  The patient was advised to have cone biopsy to fully assess endocervical glands.,FINDINGS: , During the examination, under anesthesia, the vulva, vagina, and cervix were grossly unremarkable.  The uterus was smooth with no palpable cervical nodularity and no adnexal masses were noted.,PROCEDURE: , The patient was brought to the Operating Room with an IV in place.  Anesthetic was administered and she was placed in the lithotomy position.  The patient was prepped and draped after which a weighted speculum was placed in the vagina and a tenaculum was placed on the cervix for traction.  Angle stitches of 0 Vicryl sutures were placed at 3 o'clock and 9 o'clock in the lateral vagina fornices.  The cervix was stained with Lugol's iodine solution. ,After the cervix was stained, a scalpel was used to excise a cone shaped biopsy circumferentially around the cervical os.  The specimen was removed intact, after which the uterine cavity was sounded to a depth of 8 cm.  A Kevorkian curette was used to obtain endocervical curettings.  The cone biopsy site was sutured using a running lock stitch of 0 Vicryl suture.  Upon completion of the suture placement, the endocervical canal was sounded to assure patency.  A prophylactic application of Monsel's solution completed the procedure.  ,The patient was awakened from her anesthetic and taken to the post anesthesia care unit in stable condition.  Final sponge, needle, and instrument counts were.
NORMAL CATARACT SURGERY,PROCEDURE DETAILS: , The patient was taken to the operating room where the Rand-Stein anesthesia protocol was followed using alfentanil and Brevital.  Topical tetracaine drops were applied.  The operative eye was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  A lid speculum was inserted.,Under the Zeiss operating microscope, a lateral clear corneal approach was utilized.  A stab incision was made with a diamond blade to the right of the lateral limbus and the anterior chamber filled with intracameral lidocaine and viscoelastic.  A 3-mm single pass clear corneal incision was made just anterior to the vascular arcade of the temporal limbus using a diamond keratome.  A 5- to 5.5-mm anterior capsulorrhexis was created.  The nucleus was hydrodissected and hydrodelineated, and was freely movable in the capsular bag.  The nucleus was then phacoemulsified using a quadrantic divide-and-conquer technique.  Following the deep groove formation, the lens was split bimanually and the resultant quadrants and epicortex removed under high-vacuum burst-mode phacoemulsification.  Peripheral cortex was removed with the irrigation and aspiration handpiece.  The posterior capsule was polished.  The capsular bag was expanded with viscoelastic.  The implant was inspected under the microscope and found to be free of defects.  The implant was inserted into the cartridge system under viscoelastic and placed in the capsular bag.  The trailing haptic was positioned with the cartridge system.  Residual viscoelastic was removed from the anterior chamber and from behind the implant.  The corneal wound was hydrated with balanced salt solution.  The anterior chamber was fully re-formed through the side-port incision.  The wound was inspected and found to be watertight.  The intraocular pressure was adjusted as necessary.  The lid speculum was removed.  Topical Timoptic drops, Eserine and Dexacidin ointment were applied.  The eye was shielded.  The patient appeared to tolerate the procedure well and left the operating room in stable condition.  Followup appointment is with Dr. X on the first postoperative day.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Acute appendicitis with perforation.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  ,Acute appendicitis with perforation.,ANESTHESIA:,  General.,PROCEDURE: , Laparoscopic appendectomy.,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: , The patient is a 4-year-old little boy, who has been sick for several days and was seen in our Emergency Department yesterday where a diagnosis of possible constipation was made, but he was sent home with a prescription for polyethylene glycol but became more acutely ill and returned today with tachycardia, high fever and signs of peritonitis.  A CT scan of his abdomen showed evidence of appendicitis with perforation.  He was evaluated in the Emergency Department and placed on the appendicitis critical pathway for this acute appendicitis process.  He required several boluses of fluid for tachycardia and evidence of dehydration.,I met with Carlos' parents and talked to them about the diagnosis of appendicis and surgical risks, benefits, and alternative treatment options.  All their questions have been answered and they agree with the surgical plan.,OPERATIVE FINDINGS: , The patient had acute perforated appendicitis with diffuse suppurative peritonitis including multiple intraloop abscesses and purulent debris in all quadrants of the abdomen including the perihepatic and subphrenic recesses as well.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , The patient came to the operating room and had an uneventful induction of general anesthesia.  A Foley catheter was placed for decompression, and his abdomen was prepared and draped in a standard fashion.  A 0.25% Marcaine was infiltrated in the soft tissues around his umbilicus and in the suprapubic and left lower quadrant locations chosen for trocar insertion.  We conducted our surgical timeout and reiterated all of Carlos' unique and important identifying information and confirmed the diagnosis of appendicitis and planned laparoscopic appendectomy as the procedure.  A 1-cm vertical infraumbilical incision was made and an open technique was used to place a 12-mm Step trocar through the umbilical fascia.  CO2 was insufflated to a pressure of 15 mmHg and then two additional 5-mm working ports were placed in areas that had been previously anesthetized.,There was a lot of diffuse purulent debris and adhesions between the omentum and adjacent surfaces of the bowel and the parietal peritoneum.  After these were gently separated, we began to identify the appendix.  In the __________ due to the large amount of small bowel dilatation and distension, I used the hook cautery with the lowest intraperitoneal __________ profile to coagulate the mesoappendix.  The base of the appendix was then ligated with 2-0 PDS Endoloops, and the appendix was amputated and withdrawn through the umbilical port.  I spent the next 10 minutes irrigating purulent fluid and debris from the peritoneal cavity using 2 L of sterile crystalloid solution and a suction power irrigation system.  When this was complete, the CO2 was released one final time and as much of the fluid was drained from the peritoneal cavity as possible.  The umbilical fascia was closed with figure-of-eight suture of 0 Monocryl and the skin incisions were closed with subcuticular 5-0 Monocryl and Steri-Strips.  The patient tolerated the operation well.  He was awakened and taken to the recovery room in satisfactory condition.  His blood loss was less than 10 mL, and he received only crystalloid fluid during the procedure.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 60-year-old female patient who off and on for the past 10 to 12 months has had almost daily diarrhea, nausea, inability to eat.  She had an EGD and colonoscopy with Dr. ABC a few days prior to this admission.  Colonoscopy did reveal diverticulosis and EGD showed retained bile and possible gastritis.  Biopsies were done.  The patient presented to our emergency room for worsening abdominal pain as well as swelling of the right lower leg.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Extensive and well documented in prior charts.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , Abdomen was diffusely tender.  Lungs clear.  Blood pressure 129/69 on admission.  At the time of admission, she had just a trace of bilateral lower edema.,LABORATORY STUDIES: , White count 6.7, hemoglobin 13, hematocrit 39.3.  Potassium of 3.2 on 08/15/2007.,HOSPITAL COURSE: , Dr. ABC apparently could not advance the scope into the cecum and therefore warranted a barium enema.  This was done and did not really show what the cecum on the barium enema.  There was some retained stool in that area and the patient had a somewhat prolonged hospital course on the remaining barium from the colon.  She did have some enemas.  She had persistent nausea, headache, neck pain throughout this hospitalization.  Finally, she did improve enough to the point where she could be discharged home.,DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: , Nausea and abdominal pain of uncertain etiology.,SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS:  ,Migraine headache.,COMPLICATIONS:  ,None.,DISCHARGE CONDITION: , Guarded.,DISCHARGE PLAN:  ,Follow up with me in the office in 5 to 7 days to resume all pre-admission medications.  Diet and activity as tolerated.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Herniated nucleus pulposus, C5-C6, with spinal stenosis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Herniated nucleus pulposus, C5-C6, with spinal stenosis.,PROCEDURE: , Anterior cervical discectomy with fusion C5-C6.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was placed in supine position.  The neck was prepped and draped in the usual fashion.  An incision was made from midline to the anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid in the right side.  Skin and subcutaneous tissue were divided sharply.  Trachea and esophagus were retracted medially.  Carotid sheath was retracted laterally.  Longus colli muscles were dissected away from the vertebral bodies of C5-C6.  We confirmed our position by taking intraoperative x-rays.  We then used the operating microscope and cleaned out the disk completely.  We then sized the interspace and then tapped in a #7 mm cortical cancellous graft.  We then used the DePuy Dynamic plate with 14-mm screws.  Jackson-Pratt drain was placed in the prevertebral space and brought out through a separate incision.  The wound was closed in layers using 2-0 Vicryl for muscle and fascia.  The blood loss was less than 10-20 mL.  No complication.  Needle count, sponge count, and cottonoid count was correct.
EXAM: , Three views of the right ankle.,INDICATIONS:  ,Pain.,FINDINGS: , Three views of the right ankle are obtained.  There is no evidence of fractures or dislocations.  No significant degenerative changes or destructive osseous lesions of the ankle are noted.  There is a small plantar calcaneal spur.  There is no significant surrounding soft tissue swelling.,IMPRESSION:  ,Negative right ankle.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: , Abdominal pain.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , This is an 86-year-old female who is a patient of Dr. X, who was transferred from ABCD Home due to persistent abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, which started around 11:00 a.m. yesterday.  During evaluation in the emergency room, the patient was found to have a high amylase as well as lipase count and she is being admitted for management of acute pancreatitis.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Significant for dementia of Alzheimer type, anxiety, osteoarthritis, and hypertension.,ALLERGIES: , THE PATIENT IS ALLERGIC TO POLLENS.,MEDICATIONS: , Include alprazolam 0.5 mg b.i.d. p.r.n., mirtazapine 30 mg p.o. daily, Aricept 10 mg p.o. nightly, Namenda 10 mg p.o. b.i.d., Benicar 40 mg p.o. daily, and Claritin 10 mg daily p.r.n.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Not available.,PERSONAL HISTORY:  ,Not available.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,Not available.  The patient lives at a skilled nursing facility.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  ,She has moderate-to-severe dementia and is unable to give any information about history or review of systems.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  She is awake and alert, able to follow few simple commands, resting comfortably, does not appear to be in any acute distress.,VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature of 99.5, pulse 82, respirations 18, blood pressure of 150/68, and pulse ox is 90% on room air.,HEENT:  Atraumatic.  Pupils are equal and reactive to light.  Sclerae and conjunctivae are normal.  Throat without any pharyngeal inflammation or exudate.  Oral mucosa is normal.,NECK:  No jugular venous distention.  Carotids are felt normally.  No bruit appreciated.  Thyroid gland is not palpable.  There are no palpable lymph nodes in the neck or the supraclavicular region.,HEART:  S1 and S2 are heard normally.  No murmur appreciated.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, diffusely tender.  No rebound or rigidity.  Bowel sounds are heard.  Most of the tenderness is located in the epigastric region.,EXTREMITIES:  Without any pedal edema, normal dorsalis pedis pulsations bilaterally.,BREASTS:  Normal.,BACK:  The patient does not have any decubitus or skin changes on her back.,LABS DONE AT THE TIME OF ADMISSION: , WBC of 24.3, hemoglobin and hematocrit 15.3 and 46.5, MCV 89.3, and platelet count of 236,000.  PT 10.9, INR 1.1, PTT of 22.  Urinalysis with positive nitrite, 5 to 10 wbc's, and 2+ bacteria.  Sodium 134, potassium 3.6, chloride 97, bicarbonate 27, calcium 8.8, BUN 25, creatinine 0.9, albumin of 3.4, alkaline phosphatase 109, ALT 121, AST 166, amylase 1797, and lipase over 3000.  X-ray of abdomen shows essentially normal abdomen with possible splenic granulomas and degenerative spine changes.  CT of the abdomen revealed acute pancreatitis, cardiomegaly, and right lung base atelectasis.  Ultrasound of the abdomen revealed echogenic liver with fatty infiltration.  Repeat CBC from today showed white count to be 21.6, hemoglobin and hematocrit 13.9 and 41.1, platelet count is normal, 89% segments and 2% bands.  Sodium 132, potassium 4.0, chloride 98, bicarbonate 22, glucose 184, ALT 314, AST 382, amylase 918, and lipase 1331.  The cultures are pending at this time.  EKG shows sinus rhythm, rate about 90 per minute, multiple ventricular premature complexes are noted.  Troponin 0.004 and myoglobin is 39.6.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Acute pancreatitis.,2.  Leukocytosis.,3.  Urinary tract infection.,4.  Hyponatremia.,5.  Dementia.,6.  Anxiety.,7.  History of hypertension.,8.  Abnormal electrocardiogram.,9.  Osteoarthrosis.,PLAN:,  Admit the patient to medical floor, NPO, IV antibiotics, IV fluids, hold p.o. medications, GI consult, pain control, Zofran IV p.r.n., bedrest, DVT prophylaxis, check blood and urine cultures.  I have left a message for the patient's son to call me back.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Right carpal tunnel syndrome.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:, Right carpal tunnel syndrome.,PROCEDURE:,  Right carpal tunnel release.,ANESTHESIA:,  Bier block to the right hand.,TOTAL TOURNIQUET TIME: , 20 minutes.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,DISPOSITION: , Stable to PACU.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Less than 10 cc.,GROSS OPERATIVE FINDINGS:,  We did find a compressed right median nerve upon entering the carpal tunnel, otherwise, the structures of the carpal canal are otherwise unremarkable.  No evidence of tumor was found.,BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,This is a 54-year-old female who was complaining of right hand numbness and tingling of the median distribution and has elected to undergo carpal tunnel surgery secondary to failure of conservative management.,PROCEDURE: , The patient was taken to the operative room and placed in the supine position.  The patient underwent a Bier block by the Department of Anesthesia on the upper extremity.  The upper extremity was prepped and draped in usual sterile fashion and left free.  Attention was drawn then to the palm of the hand.  We did identify area of incision that we would make, which was located over the carpal tunnel.,Approximately, 1.5 cm incision was made using a #10 blade scalpel.  Dissection was carried through the skin and fascia over the palm down to the carpal tunnel taking care during dissection to avoid any branches of nerves.  Carpal tunnel was then entered and the rest of the transverse carpal ligament was incised sharply with a #10 scalpel.  We inspected the median nerve and found that it was flat and compressed from the transverse carpal ligament.  We found no evidence of tumor or space occupying lesion in the carpal tunnel.  We then irrigated copiously.  Tourniquet was taken down at that time and pressure was held.  There was no evidence of obvious bleeders.  We approximated the skin with nylon and placed a postoperative dressing with a volar splint.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  She was placed back in the gurney and taken to PACU.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:,  Decreased ability to perform daily living activities secondary to right knee surgery.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 61-year-old white female status post right total knee replacement secondary to degenerative joint disease performed by Dr. A at ABCD Hospital on 08/21/2007.  The patient was transfused with 2 units of autologous blood postoperatively.  She received DVT prophylaxis with a combination of Coumadin, Lovenox, SCD boots, and TED stockings.  The remainder of her postoperative course was uneventful.  She was discharged on 08/24/2007 from ABCD Hospital and admitted to the transitional care unit at XYZ Services for evaluation and rehabilitation.  The patient reports that her last bowel movement was on 08/24/2007 just prior to her discharge from ABCD Hospital.  She denies any urological symptoms such as dysuria, incomplete bladder emptying or other voiding difficulties.  She reports having some right knee pain, which is most intense at a "certain position."  The patient is unable to elaborate on which "certain position" causes her the most discomfort.,ALLERGIES:,  NKDA.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Hypertension, hypothyroidism, degenerative joint disease, GERD, anxiety disorder, Morton neuroma of her feet bilaterally, and distant history of migraine headaches some 30 years ago.,MEDICATIONS:,  On transfer, Celebrex, Coumadin, Colace, Synthroid, Lovenox, Percocet, Toprol XL, niacin, and trazodone.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 96.5, blood pressure 127/72, pulse 70, respiratory rate 20, 95% O2 saturation on room air.,GENERAL:  No acute distress at the time of the exam except as mentioned above complains of right knee pain at "certain position.",HEENT:  Normocephalic.  Sclerae nonicteric.  EOMI.  Dentition in good repair.  Tongue is in midline with no evidence of thrush.,NECK:  No thyroid enlargement.  Trachea is midline.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation.,HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm.  Normal S1 and S2.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender, and nondistended.  No organomegaly.,EXTREMITIES:  The right knee incision is intact.  Steri-Strips are in place.  There is some diffuse right knee edema and some limited ecchymosis as well.  No calf tenderness bilaterally.  Pedal pulses are palpable bilaterally.,MENTAL STATUS:  The patient appears slightly anxious during the interview and exam, but she was alert and oriented.,HOSPITAL COURSE: , As mentioned above, the patient was admitted on 08/24/2007 to the Transitional Care Unit at XYZ Services for evaluation and rehabilitation.  She was seen in consultation by Physical Therapy and Occupational Therapy and had begun her rehabilitation till recovery.  The patient had been properly instructed regarding using the CPM machine and she had been instructed as well to limit each CPM session to two hours.  Very early in her hospitalization, the patient enthusiastically used the CPM much longer than two hours and consequently had increased right knee pain.  She remarked that she had a better degree of flexibility, but she did report an increased need for pain management.  Additionally, she required Ativan and at one point scheduled the doses of Ativan to treat her known history of anxiety disorder.  On the fourth hospital day, she was noted to have some rashes about the right upper extremity and right side of her abdomen.  The patient reported that this rash was itchy.  She reports that she had been doing quite a bit of gardening just prior to surgery and this was most likely contact dermatitis, most likely due to her gardening activities preoperatively.  She was treated with betamethasone cream applied to the rash b.i.d.  The patient's therapy had progressed and she continued to make a good progress.  At one point, the patient reported some insomnia due to right knee pain.  She was switched from Percocet to oxycodone SR 20 mg b.i.d. and she had good pain control with this using the Percocet only for breakthrough pain.  The DVT prophylaxis was maintained with Lovenox 40 mg subcu daily until the INR was greater than 1.7 and it was discontinued on 08/30/2007 when the INR was 1.92 within therapeutic range.  The Coumadin was adjusted accordingly according to the INRs during her hospital course.  Early in the hospital course, the patient had reported right calf tenderness and a venous Doppler study obtained on 08/27/2007 showed no DVT bilaterally.  Initial laboratory data includes a UA on 08/28/2007, which was negative.  Additionally, CBC showed a white count of 6.3, hemoglobin was 12.1, hematocrit was 35.3, and platelets were 278,000.  Chemistries were within normal limits.  Creatinine was 0.8, BUN was 8, anion gap was slightly decreased at 5, fasting glucose was 102.  The remainder of chemistries was unremarkable.  The patient continued to make great progress with her therapies so much so that we are anticipating her discharge on Monday, 09/03/2007.,DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Status post right total knee replacement secondary to degenerative joint disease performed on 08/21/2007.,2.  Anxiety disorder.,3.  Insomnia secondary to pain and anxiety postoperatively.,4.  Postoperative constipation.,5.  Contact dermatitis secondary to preoperative gardening activities.,6.  Hypertension.,7.  Hypothyroidism.,8.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.,9.  Morton neuroma of the feet bilaterally.,10.  Distant history of migraine headaches.,INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN TO THE PATIENT AT THE TIME OF DISCHARGE: , The patient is advised to continue taking the following medications:  Celebrex 200 mg daily, for one month, Colace 100 mg b.i.d. for one month, Protonix 40 mg b.i.d. for one month, Synthroid 137 mcg daily, Diprosone cream 0.05% cream b.i.d. to the right arm and right abdomen, oxycodone SR 20 mg p.o. q.12h. for five days, then decrease to oxycodone SR 10 mg p.o. q.12h. for five days, Percocet 5/325 mg one to two tablets q.6h. to be used p.r.n. for breakthrough pain, trazodone 50 mg p.o. at bedtime p.r.n. for two weeks, Ativan 0.25 mg b.i.d. for two weeks, and Toprol-XL 50 mg daily.  The patient will also take Coumadin and the dose will be adjusted according to the INRs, which will be obtained every Monday and Thursday with results being sent to Dr. A and his fax number is 831-5926.  At the present time, the patient is taking Coumadin 7 mg daily.  She will remain on Coumadin for 30 days.  An INR is to be obtained on 09/03/2007 and should the Coumadin dose be changed, an addendum will be dictated to accompany this discharge summary.  Finally, the patient has a followup appointment with Dr. A on 09/21/2007 at noon at his office.  The patient is encouraged to follow up with her primary care physician, Dr. B.  As mentioned above, the patient will be discharged on 09/03/2007 in stable and improved condition since she is status post right total knee replacement and has made good progress with her therapies and rehabilitation.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Right lateral base of tongue lesion, probable cancer.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Right lateral base of tongue lesion, probable cancer.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:  ,Excisional biopsy with primary closure of a 4 mm right lateral base of tongue lesion.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,FINDINGS: , An ulceration in the right lateral base of tongue region.  This was completely excised.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:,  Less than 5 mL.,FLUIDS: , Crystalloid only.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,DRAINS:,  None.,CONDITION:,  Stable.,PROCEDURE:  ,The patient placed supine in position under general anesthesia.  First a Sweetheart gag was placed in the patient's mouth and the mouth was elevated.  The lesion in the tongue could be seen.  Then, it was injected with 1% lidocaine and 1:100,00 epinephrine.  After 5 minutes of waiting, then an elliptical incision was made around this mass with electrocautery and then it was sharply dissected off the muscular layer and removed in total.  Suction cautery was used for hemostasis.  Then, 3 simple interrupted #4-0 Vicryl sutures were used to close the wound and procedure was then terminated at that time.
PROCEDURES:,1.  Right and left heart catheterization.,2.  Coronary angiography.,3.  Left ventriculography.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:,  After informed consent was obtained, the patient was taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory.  Patient was prepped and draped in sterile fashion.  Via modified Seldinger technique, the right femoral vein was punctured and a 6-French sheath was placed over a guide wire.  Via modified Seldinger technique, right femoral artery was punctured and a 6-French sheath was placed over a guide wire.  The diagnostic procedure was performed using the JL-4, JR-4, and a 6-French pigtail catheter along with a Swan-Ganz catheter.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and there were immediate complications were noted.  Angio-Seal was used at the end of the procedure to obtain hemostasis.,CORONARY ARTERIES:,LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY:  The left main coronary artery is of moderate size vessel with bifurcation into the left descending coronary artery and circumflex coronary artery.  No significant stenotic lesions were identified in the left main coronary artery.,LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING CORONARY ARTERY:  The left descending artery is a moderate sized vessel, which gives rise to multiple diagonals and perforating branches.  No significant stenotic lesions were identified in the left anterior descending coronary artery system.,CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY:  The circumflex artery is a moderate sized vessel.  The vessel is a stenotic lesion.  After the right coronary artery, the RCA is a moderate size vessel with no focal stenotic lesions.,HEMODYNAMIC DATA: , Capital wedge pressure was 22.  The aortic pressure was 52/24.  Right ventricular pressure was 58/14.  RA pressure was 14.  The aortic pressure was 127/73.  Left ventricular pressure was 127/15.  Cardiac output of 9.2.,LEFT VENTRICULOGRAM: , The left ventriculogram was performed in the RAO projection only.  In the RAO projection, the left ventriculogram revealed dilated left ventricle with mild global hypokinesis and estimated ejection fraction of 45 to 50%.  Severe mitral regurgitation was also noted.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Left ventricular dilatation with global hypokinesis and estimated ejection fraction of 45 to 50%.,2.  Severe mitral regurgitation.,3.  No significant coronary artery disease identified in the left main coronary artery, left anterior descending coronary artery, circumflex coronary artery or the right coronary artery.,
REASON FOR CONSULTATION: , Antibiotic management for a right foot ulcer and possible osteomyelitis.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  The patient is a 68-year-old Caucasian male with past medical history of diabetes mellitus.  He was doing fairly well until last week while mowing the lawn, he injured his right foot.  He presented to the Hospital Emergency Room.  Cultures taken from the wound on 06/25/2008, were reported positive for methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA).  The patient was started on intravenous antibiotic therapy with Levaquin and later on that was changed to oral formulation.  The patient underwent debridement of the wound on 07/29/2008.  Apparently, MRI and a bone scan was performed at that facility, which was reported negative for osteomyelitis.  The patient was then referred to the wound care center at General Hospital.  From there, he has been admitted to Long-Term Acute Care Facility for wound care with wound VAC placement.  On exam, he has a lacerated wound on the plantar aspect of the right foot, which extends from the second metatarsal area to the fifth metatarsal area, closed with the area of the head of these bones.  The wound itself is deep and stage IV and with exam of her gloved finger in my opinion, the third metatarsal bone is palpable, which leads to the clinical diagnosis of osteomyelitis.  The patient has serosanguineous drainage in this wound and it tracks under the skin in all directions except distal.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Positive for:,1.  Diabetes mellitus.,2.  Osteomyelitis of the right fifth toe, which was treated with intravenous antibiotic therapy for 6 weeks about 5 years back.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Positive for mother passing away in her late 60s from heart attack, father had liver cancer, and passed away from that.  One of his children suffers from hypothyroidism, 2 grandchildren has cerebral palsy secondary to being prematurely born.,ALLERGIES: , No known drug allergies.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , Positive findings of the foot that have been mentioned above.  All other systems reviewed were negative.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  A 68-year-old Caucasian male who was not in any acute hemodynamic distress at present.,Vital Signs:  Show a maximum recorded temperature of 98, pulse is rating between 67 to 80 per minute, respiratory rate is 20 per minute, blood pressure is varying between 137/63 to 169/75.,HEENT:  Pupils equal, round, reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Head is normocephalic.  External ear exam is normal.,Neck:  Supple.  There is no palpable lymphadenopathy.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm of the heart without any appreciable murmur, rub or gallop.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation and percussion bilaterally.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, and nondistended without any organomegaly and bowel sounds are positive.  There is no palpable lymphadenopathy in the inguinal and femoral area.,Extremities:  There is no cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  There is no peripheral stigmata of endocarditis.  On the plantar aspect of the distal part of the right foot, the patient has a lacerated wound, which extends from the second metatarsal area to the fifth metatarsal area.  Tracking under the skin is palpable with a gloved finger in all direction except the distal one.  On the proximal tracking, the area of the wound, the third metatarsal bone is palpable.  Therefore, clinically, the patient has diagnoses of osteomyelitis.,Central nervous system:  The patient is alert, oriented x3.  Cranial nerves II through XII are intact.  There is no focal deficit appreciated.,LABORATORY DATA:,  No laboratory or radiological data is available at present in the chart.,IMPRESSION/PLAN: , A 68-year-old Caucasian male with history of diabetes mellitus who had an accidental lawn mower-associated injury on the right foot.  He has undergone debridement on 07/29/2008.  Culture results from the debridement procedure are not available.  Wound cultures from 07/25/2008 showed methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus.,From the Infectious Disease point of view, the patient has the following problems, and I would recommend following treatments strategy.,1.  Right foot infected ulcer with clinical evidence of osteomyelitis.  Even if the MRI and bone scan are negative, the treatment should be guided with diagnosis on clinical counts in my opinion.  Cultures have been reported positive for methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus.  Therefore, I would discontinue the current antibiotic regimen of oral Levaquin, Zyvox, and intravenous Zosyn, and start the patient on intravenous Ancef 2 g q.8 h.  We will need to continue this treatment for 6 weeks for treatment of osteomyelitis and deep wound infection.  I would also recommend continuation of wound care and wound VAC placement that would start tomorrow.  We will get a PICC line placed to complete the 6-week course of intravenous antibiotic therapy.,2.  We would check labs including CBC with differential, chemistry 7 panel, LFTs, ESR, and C-reactive protein levels every Monday and chemistry 7 panel and CBC every Thursday for the duration of antibiotic therapy.,3.  I will continue to monitor wound healing 2 to 3 times a week.  Wound care will be managed by the wound care team at the Long-Term Acute Care Facility.,4.  The treatment plan was discussed in detail with the patient and his daughter who was visiting him when I saw him.,5.  Other medical problems will continue to be followed and treated by Dr. X's group during this hospitalization.,6.  I appreciate the opportunity of participating in this patient's care.  If you have any questions please feel free to call me at any time.  I will continue to follow the patient along with you for the next few days during this hospitalization.  We would also try to get the results of the deep wound cultures from 07/29/2008, MRI, and bone scan from Hospital.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , This is a 3-year-old female patient, who was admitted today with a history of gagging.  She was doing well until about 2 days ago, when she developed gagging.  No vomiting.  No fever.  She has history of constipation.  She normally passes stool every two days after giving an enema.  No rectal bleeding.  She was brought to the Hospital with some loose stool.  She was found to be dehydrated.  She was given IV fluid bolus, but then she started bleeding from G-tube site.  There was some fresh blood coming out of the G-tube site.  She was transferred to PICU.  She is hypertensive.  Intensivist Dr. X requested me to come and look at her, and do upper endoscopy to find the site of bleeding.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , PEHO syndrome, infantile spasm, right above knee amputation, developmental delay, G-tube fundoplication.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: , G-tube fundoplication on 05/25/2007.  Right above knee amputation.,ALLERGIES:,  None.,DIET: , She is NPO now, but at home she is on PediaSure 4 ounces 3 times a day through G-tube, 12 ounces of water per day.,MEDICATIONS: , Albuterol, Pulmicort, MiraLax 17 g once a week, carnitine, phenobarbital, Depakene and Reglan.,FAMILY HISTORY:,  Positive for cancer.,PAST LABORATORY EVALUATION: , On 12/27/2007; WBC 9.3, hemoglobin 7.6, hematocrit 22.1, platelet 132,000.  KUB showed large stool with dilated small and large bowel loops.  Sodium 140, potassium 4.4, chloride 89, CO2 21, BUN 61, creatinine 2, AST 92 increased, ALT 62 increased, albumin 5.3, total bilirubin 0.1.  Earlier this morning, she had hemoglobin of 14.5, hematocrit 41.3, platelets 491,000.  PT 58 increased, INR 6.6 increased, PTT 75.9 increased.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  ,VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 99 degrees Fahrenheit, pulse 142 per minute, respirations 34 per minute, weight 8.6 kg.,GENERAL:  She is intubated.,HEENT:  Atraumatic.  She is intubated.,LUNGS:  Good air entry bilaterally.  No rales or wheezing.,ABDOMEN:  Distended.  Decreased bowel sounds.,GENITALIA:  Grossly normal female.,CNS:  She is sedated.,IMPRESSION: , A 3-year-old female patient with history of passage of blood through G-tube site with coagulopathy.  She has a history of G-tube fundoplication, developmental delay, PEHO syndrome, which is progressive encephalopathy optic atrophy.,PLAN:  ,Plan is to give vitamin K, FFP, blood transfusion.  Consider upper endoscopy.  Procedure and informed consent discussed with the family.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:, Abdominal pain and discomfort for 3 weeks.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:, ,The patient is a 38 year old white female with no known medical problems who presents complaining of abdominal pain and discomfort for 3 weeks. She had been in her normal state of health when she started having this diffuse abdominal pain and discomfort which is mostly located in the epigastrium and right upper quadrant. She also complains of indigestion and right scapular pain during this same period. None of these complaints are alleviated or aggravated by food. She denies any NSAIDs use. The patient went to an outside hospital where a right upper quadrant ultrasound showed no gallbladder disease, but was suspicious for a liver mass. A CT and MRI of the abdomen and pelvis showed a 12.5 X 10.9 X 11.1 cm right suprarenal mass and a 7.1 X 5.4 X 6.5 cm intrahepatic mass in the region of the dome of the liver. CT of the chest revealed multiple small (<5 mm) bilateral lung nodules. Total body bone scan had no abnormal uptake. She was transferred to Methodist for further care.,The patient reports having a good appetite and denies any weight loss. She denies having any fever or chills. She has noticed increasing dyspnea with moderate exercise, but not at rest. She denies having palpitations. She occasionally has nausea, but no vomiting, constipation, or diarrhea. Over the last 2 months, she has noticed increasing facial hair and a mustache.,There is an extensive family history of colon and other cancers in her family. She was told there is a genetic defect in her family but cannot recall the name of the syndrome. She had a colonoscopy and a polyp removed at the age of 14 years old. Her last colonoscopy was 2 months ago and was unremarkable.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :, None.  No history of hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, liver disease or cancer.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:, Bilateral tubal ligation in 2001, colon polyp removed at 14 years old.,GYN HISTORY:, Gravida 2, Para 2, Ab 0. Menstrual periods have been regular, last menstrual period almost 1 month ago. No menorrhagia. Never had a mammogram. Has yearly Pap smears which have all been normal.,FAMILY HISTORY:, Mother is 61 years old and brother is 39 years old, both alive and well. Father died at 48 of colon cancer and questionable pancreatic cancer. One paternal uncle died at 32 of colon cancer and bile duct cancer. One paternal uncle had colon cancer in his 40s. Thirty cancers are noted on the fatherâ€™s side of the family, many are colon; two women had breast cancer. The family was told that there is a genetic syndrome in the family, but no one remembers the name of the syndrome.,SOCIAL HISTORY:, No tobacco, alcohol or illicit drug use. Patient is born and raised in Oklahoma . No known exposures. Married with 2 children.,MEDICATION:,  None.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  No headaches. No visual, hearing, or swallowing difficulties. No cough or hemoptysis. No chest pain, PND, orthopnea. No changes in bowel or urinary habits. Otherwise, as stated in HPI.,PHYSICAL EXAM:,VS: T 97.6 BP 121/85 P 84 R 18 O2 Sat 100% on room air,GEN: Pleasant, thin woman in mild distress secondary to abdominal pain and discomfort.,HEENT: Pupils equally round and reactive to light. Extra-ocular movements intact. Anicteric. Sclerae clear. Pink conjunctiva. Moist mucous membranes. No oropharyngeal lesions.,NECK: Supple, no masses, jugular venous distention or bruits.,LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,HEART: Regular rate and rhythm. No murmurs, gallops, rubs.,BREASTS: Symmetric, no skin changes, no discharge, no masses,ABDOMEN: Soft with active bowel sounds. There is minimal diffuse tenderness on examination. No masses palpated. There is fullness in the right upper quadrant with negative Murphyâ€™s sign. No rebound or guarding. The liver span is 12 cm by percussion, but not palpable below the costal margin. No splenomegaly.,PELVIC: not done,EXT: No clubbing, cyanosis, or edema. 2+ pulses bilaterally.,NEURO: Cranial nerves intact. 2+ DTRs bilaterally and symmetrically. Motor strength and sensation within the normal limits.,LYMPH: No cervical, axillary, or inguinal lymph nodes palpated,SKIN: warm, no rashes, no lesions; no tattoos,STUDIES:,CT Chest:  Multiple bilateral small (<5 mm) pulmonary nodules, no mediastinal mass or hilar adenopathy.,MRI Abdomen: 12.5 x 10.9 x 11.1 cm suprarenal mass, 7.1 x 5.4 x 6.5 cm intrahepatic lesion in the region of the dome of the liver, abnormal signal intensity within the inferior vena cava at the level of porta hepatic worrisome for thrombus.,Total Body Bone Scan: No abnormal uptake.,HOSPITAL COURSE:, ,The patient was transferred from an outside hospital for further workup and management. She was taken to the Operating Room for abdominal exploration. A liver biopsy was done.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Neuromuscular dysphagia.,2.  Protein-calorie malnutrition.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Neuromuscular dysphagia.,2.  Protein-calorie malnutrition.,PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,1.  Esophagogastroduodenoscopy with photo.,2.  Insertion of a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube.,ANESTHESIA:,  IV sedation and local.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,DISPOSITION: , The patient tolerated the procedure well without difficulty.,BRIEF HISTORY:  ,The patient is a 50-year-old African-American male who presented to ABCD General Hospital on 08/18/2003 secondary to right hemiparesis from a CVA.  The patient deteriorated with several CVAs and had became encephalopathic requiring a ventilator-dependency with respiratory failure.  The patient also had neuromuscular dysfunction.  After extended period of time, per the patient's family request and requested by the ICU staff, decision to place a feeding tube was decided and scheduled for today.,INTRAOPERATIVE FINDINGS: , The patient was found to have esophagitis as well as gastritis via EGD and was placed on Prevacid granules.,PROCEDURE: , After informed written consent, the risks and benefits of the procedure were explained to the patient and the patient's family.  First, the EGD was to be performed.,The Olympus endoscope was inserted through the mouth, oropharynx and into the esophagus.  Esophagitis was noted.  The scope was then passed through the esophagus into the stomach.  The cardia, fundus, body, and antrum of the stomach were visualized.  There was evidence of gastritis.  The scope was passed into the duodenal bulb and sweep via the pylorus and then removed from the duodenum retroflexing on itself in the stomach looking at the hiatus.  Next, attention was made to transilluminating the anterior abdominal wall for the PEG placement.  The skin was then anesthetized with 1% lidocaine.  The finder needle was then inserted under direct visualization.  The catheter was then grasped via the endoscope and the wire was pulled back up through the patient's mouth.  The Ponsky PEG tube was attached to the wire.  A skin nick was made with a #11 blade scalpel.  The wire was pulled back up through the abdominal wall point and Ponsky PEG back up through the abdominal wall and inserted into position.  The endoscope was then replaced confirming position.  Photograph was taken.  The Ponsky PEG tube was trimmed and the desired attachments were placed and the patient did tolerate the procedure well.  We will begin tube feeds later this afternoon.
IDENTIFICATION OF PATIENT: , The patient is a 34-year-old Caucasian female.,CHIEF COMPLAINT:,  Depression.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  The patient's depression began in her teenage years.  Sleep has been poor, for multiple reasons.  She has obstructive sleep apnea, and has difficulties with a child who has insomnia related to medications that he takes.  The patient tends to feel irritable, and has crying spells.  She sometimes has problems with motivation.  She has problems with memory, and energy level is poor. Appetite has been poor, but without weight change.  Because of her frequent awakening, her CPAP machine monitor has indicated she is not using it enough, and Medicaid is threatening to refuse to pay for the machine.  She does not have suicidal thoughts.  ,The patient also has what she describes as going into a "panic mode."  During these times, she feels as if her whole body is going to explode.  She has a hard time taking a deep breath, her heart rate goes up, blood pressure is measured as higher shortly afterward, and she gets a sense of impending doom.  These spells may last a couple of hours, but once lasted for about two day.  She does not get chest pain.  These attacks tend to be precipitated by bills that cannot be paid, or being on a "time crunch." ,PSYCHIATRIC HISTORY:,  The patient's nurse practitioner had started her on Cymbalta, up to 60 mg per day. This was helpful, but then another physician switched her to Wellbutrin in the hope that this would help her quit smoking.  Although she was able to cut down on tobacco usage, the depression has been more poorly controlled.  She has used Wellbutrin up to 200 mg b.i.d. and Cymbalta up to 60 mg per day, at different times.  At age 13, the patient cut her wrists because of issues with a boyfriend, and as she was being sutured she realized that this was a very stupid thing to do.  She has never been hospitalized for psychiatric purposes.  She did see a psychologist at age 16 briefly because of prior issues in her life, but she did not fully reveal information, and it was deemed that she did not need services.  She has not previously spoken with a psychiatrist, but has been seeing a therapist, Stephanie Kitchen, at this facility.,SUBSTANCE ABUSE HISTORY:,Caffeine:  The patient has two or three drinks per day of tea or Diet Pepsi.,Tobacco:  She smokes about one pack of cigarettes per week since being on Wellbutrin, and prior to that time had been smoking one-half pack per day.  She is still committed to quitting.,Alcohol: Denied.,Illicit drugs:  Denied.  In her earlier years, someone once put some unknown drug in her milk, and she "came to" when she was dancing on the table in front of the school nurse.,MEDICAL HISTORY/REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,Constitutional:  See History of Present Illness. No recent fever or sweats.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Cervical spondylosis at C3-C4 with cervical radiculopathy and spinal cord compression.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Cervical spondylosis at C3-C4 with cervical radiculopathy and spinal cord compression.,OPERATION PERFORMED,1.  Anterior cervical discectomy of C3-C4.,2.  Removal of herniated disc and osteophytes.,3.  Bilateral C4 nerve root decompression.,4.  Harvesting of bone for autologous vertebral bodies for creation of arthrodesis.,5.  Grafting of fibular allograft bone for creation of arthrodesis.,6.  Creation of arthrodesis via an anterior technique with fibular allograft bone and autologous bone from the vertebral bodies.,7.  Placement of anterior spinal instrumentation using the operating microscope and microdissection technique.,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: , This 62-year-old man has progressive and intractable right C4 radiculopathy with neck and shoulder pain.  Conservative therapy has failed to improve the problem.  Imaging studies showed severe spondylosis of C3-C4 with neuroforaminal narrowing and spinal cord compression.,A detailed discussion ensued with the patient as to the nature of the procedure including all risks and alternatives.  He clearly understood it and had no further questions and requested that I proceed.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was placed on the operating room table and was intubated using a fiberoptic technique.  The methylprednisolone spinal cord protocol was instituted with bolus and continuous infusion doses.  The neck was carefully prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner.,A transverse incision was made on a skin crease on the left side of the neck.  Dissection was carried down through the platysmal musculature and the anterior spine was exposed.  The medial borders of the longus colli muscles were dissected free from their attachments to the spine.  A needle was placed and it was believed to be at the C3-C4 interspace and an x-ray properly localized this space.  Castoff self-retaining pins were placed into the body of the C3 and C4.  Self-retaining retractors were placed in the wound keeping the blades of the retractors underneath the longus colli muscles.,The annulus was incised and a discectomy was performed.  Quite a bit of overhanging osteophytes were identified and removed.  As I worked back to the posterior lips of the vertebral body, the operating microscope was utilized.,There was severe overgrowth of spondylitic spurs.  A high-speed diamond bur was used to slowly drill these spurs away.  I reached the posterior longitudinal ligament and opened it and exposed the underlying dura.,Slowly and carefully I worked out towards the C3-C4 foramen.  The dura was extremely thin and I could see through it in several areas.  I removed the bony compression in the foramen and identified soft tissue and veins overlying the root.  All of these were not stripped away for fear of tearing this very tissue-paper-thin dura.  However, radical decompression was achieved removing all the bony compression in the foramen, out to the pedicle, and into the foramen.  An 8-mm of the root was exposed although I left the veins over the root intact.,The microscope was angled to the left side where a similar procedure was performed.,Once the decompression was achieved, a high-speed cortisone bur was used to decorticate the body from the greater posterior shelf to prevent backward graft migration.  Bone thus from the drilling was preserved for use for the arthrodesis.,Attention was turned to creation of the arthrodesis.  As I had drilled quite a bit into the bodies, I selected a large 12-mm graft and distracted the space maximally.  Under distraction the graft was placed and fit well.  An x-ray showed good graft placement.,Attention was turned to spinal instrumentation.  A Synthes Short Stature plate was used with four 3-mm screws.  Holes were drilled with all four screws were placed with pretty good purchase.  Next, the locking screws were then applied.  An x-ray was obtained which showed good placement of graft, plate, and screws.  The upper screws were near the upper endplate of C3.  The C3 vertebral body that remained was narrow after drilling off the spurs.  Rather than replace these screws and risk that the next holes would be too near the present holes I decided to leave these screws intact because their position is still satisfactory as they are below the disc endplate.,Attention was turned to closure.  A Hemovac drain was placed in the anterior vertebral body space and brought out through a separate stab wound incision in the skin.  The wound was then carefully closed in layers.  Sterile dressings were applied along with a rigid Philadelphia collar.  The operation was then terminated.,The patient tolerated the procedure well and left for the recovery room in excellent condition.  The sponge and needle counts were reported as correct and there were no intraoperative complications.,Specimens were sent to Pathology consisted of bone and soft tissue as well as C3-C4 disc material.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Left patellar chondromalacia.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Left patellar chondromalacia with tight lateral structures.,PROCEDURE:,  Left knee arthroscopy with lateral capsular release.,ANESTHESIA: , Surgery performed under general anesthesia.,TOURNIQUET TIME:  ,47 minutes.,MEDICATION:  ,The patient received 0.5% Marcaine local anesthetic 32 mL.,COMPLICATIONS: , No intraoperative complications.,DRAINS AND SPECIMENS: , None.,HISTORY AND PHYSICAL:  ,The patient is a 14-year-old girl who started having left knee pain in the fall of 2007.  She was not seen in Orthopedic Clinic until November 2007.  The patient had an outside MRI performed that demonstrated left patellar chondromalacia only.  The patient was referred to physical therapy for patellar tracking exercises.  She was also given a brace.  The patient reported increasing pain with physical therapy and mother strongly desired other treatment.  It was explained to the mother in detail that this is a difficult problem to treat although majority of the patients get better with physical therapy.  Her failure with nonoperative treatment is below the standard 6-month trial; however, given her symptoms and severe pain, lateral capsular release was offered.  Risk and benefits of surgery were discussed.  Risks of surgery including risk of anesthesia, infection, bleeding, changes in sensation and motion extremity, failure of procedure to relieve pain, need for postoperative rehab, and significant postoperative swelling.  All questions were answered, and mother and daughter agreed to the above plans.,PROCEDURE NOTE: , The patient was taken to the operating room and placed on the operating table.  General anesthesia was then administered.  The patient received Ancef preoperatively.  A nonsterile tourniquet was placed on the upper aspect of left thigh.  The extremity was then prepped and draped in the standard surgical fashion.  A medial suprapatellar portal was marked on the skin as well as anteromedial and anterolateral joint line.  The extremity was wrapped in Esmarch prior to inflation of tourniquet to 250 mmHg.  Esmarch was then removed.  Incisions were then made.  Camera was initially inserted into the lateral joint line.  Visualization of patellofemoral joint revealed type 2 chondromalacia with slight lateral subluxation.  The patient did have congruent articulation about 30 degrees of knee flexion.  Visualization of the medial joint line revealed no loose bodies.  There was a small plica.  Visualization of the medial joint line revealed no significant chondromalacia.  Menisci was probed and tested with no signs of tears and instability.  ACL was noted to be intact.  The intercondylar notch and lateral joint line also revealed no significant chondromalacia or meniscal pathology.  Lateral gutter also demonstrated no loose bodies or plica.  The camera was then removed and inserted into the anteromedial portal using two 18-gauge needles.  The extent of lateral capsular release was marked using a monopolar coblator, lateral capsular release was performed.  The patient had significant improvement in anteromedial translation from 25% to 50%.  At the end of the case, all instruments were removed.  The knee was injected with 32 mL of 0.5% Marcaine with additional epinephrine.  Please note, the patient received 30 mL of 1:500,000 dilution epinephrine at the beginning of the case.  The portals were then closed using 4-0 Monocryl.  The wound was clean and dry, and dressed with Steri-Strips, Xeroform, and 4 x 4s.  The kneecap was translated medially under pressure and a bias placed.  The tourniquet was released at 47 minutes.  The patient was then placed in the knee immobilizer.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and was subsequently extubated and taken to the recovery in stable condition.,POSTOPERATIVE PLAN: , The patient will weightbear as tolerated in the knee immobilizer.  She will start physical therapy within 1 to 2 weeks to work on patella mobilization as well as reconditioning and strengthening.  Intraoperative findings were relayed to the mother.  All questions were answered.
ADMISSION DIAGNOSES:,1.  Seizure.,2.  Hypoglycemia.,3.  Anemia.,4.  Hypotension.,5.  Dyspnea.,6.  Edema.,DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Colon cancer, status post right hemicolectomy.,2.  Anemia.,3.  Hospital-acquired pneumonia.,4.  Hypertension.,5.  Congestive heart failure.,6.  Seizure disorder.,PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,1.  Colonoscopy.,2.  Right hemicolectomy.,HOSPITAL COURSE: , The patient is a 59-year-old female with multiple medical problems including diabetes mellitus requiring insulin for 26 years, previous MI and coronary artery disease, history of seizure disorder, GERD, bipolar disorder, and anemia.  She was admitted due to a seizure and myoclonic jerks as well as hypoglycemia and anemia.  Regarding the seizure disorder, Neurology was consulted.  Noncontrast CT of the head was negative.  Neurology felt that the only necessary intervention at that time would be to increase her Lamictal to 150 mg in the morning and 100 mg in the evening with gradual increase of the dosage until she was on 200 mg b.i.d.  Regarding the hypoglycemia, the patient has diabetic gastroparesis and was being fed on J-tube intermittent feedings throughout the night at the rate of 120 an hour.  Her insulin pump had a basal rate of roughly three at night during the feedings.  While in the hospital, the insulin pump rate was turned down to 1.5 and then subsequently decreased a few other times.  She seemed to tolerate the insulin pump rate well throughout her hospital course.  There were a few episodes of hypoglycemia as well as hyperglycemia, but the episode seem to be related to the patient's n.p.o. status and the changing rates of tube feedings throughout her hospital course.,At discharge, her endocrinologist was contacted.  It was decided to change her insulin pump rate to 3 units per hour from midnight till 6 a.m., from 0.8 units per hour from 6 a.m. until 8 a.m., and then at 0.2 units per hour from 8 a.m. until 6 p.m.  The insulin was to be NovoLog.  Regarding the anemia, the gastroenterologists were consulted regarding her positive Hemoccult stools.  A colonoscopy was performed, which found a mass at the right hepatic flexure.  General Surgery was then consulted and a right hemicolectomy was performed on the patient.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and tube feeds were slowly restarted following the procedure, and prior to discharge were back at her predischarge rates of 120 per hour.  Regarding the cancer itself, it was found that 1 out of 53 nodes were positive for cancer.  CT of the abdomen and pelvis revealed no metastasis, a CT of the chest revealed possible lung metastasis.  Later in hospital course, the patient developed a septic-like picture likely secondary to hospital-acquired pneumonia.  She was treated with Zosyn, Levaquin, and vancomycin, and tolerated the medications well.  Her symptoms decreased and serial chest x-rays were followed, which showed some resolution of the illness.  The patient was seen by the Infectious Disease specialist.  The Infectious Disease specialist recommended vancomycin to cover MRSA bacteria, which was found at the J-tube site.  At discharge, the patient was given three additional days of p.o. Levaquin 750 mg as well as three additional days of Bactrim DS every 12 hours.  The Bactrim was used to cover the MRSA at the J-tube site.  It was found that MRSA was sensitive to Bactrim.  Throughout her hospital course, the patient continued to receive Coreg 12.5 mg daily and Lasix 40 mg twice a day for her congestive heart failure, which remains stable.  She also received Lipitor for her high cholesterol.  Her seizure disorder remained stable and she was discharged on a dose of 100 mg in the morning and 150 mg at night.  The dosage increases can begin on an outpatient basis.,DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS/MEDICATIONS: , The patient was discharged to home.  She was told to shy away from strenuous activity.  Her discharge diet was to be her usual diet of isotonic fiber feeding through the J-tube at a rate of 120 per hour throughout the night.  The discharge medications were as follows:,1.  Coreg 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.,2.  Lipitor 10 mg p.o. at bedtime.,3.  Nitro-Dur patch 0.3 mg per hour one patch daily.,4.  Phenergan syrup 6.25 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n.,5.  Synthroid 0.175 mg p.o. daily.,6.  Zyrtec 10 mg p.o. daily.,7.  Lamictal 100 mg p.o. daily.,8.  Lamictal 150 mg p.o. at bedtime.,9.  Ferrous sulfate drops 325 mg, PEG tube b.i.d.,10.  Nexium 40 mg p.o. at breakfast.,11.  Neurontin 400 mg p.o. t.i.d.,12.  Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.,13.  Fentanyl 50 mcg patch transdermal q.72h.,14.  Calcium and vitamin D combination, calcium carbonate 500 mg/vitamin D 200 units one tab p.o. t.i.d.,15.  Bactrim DS 800mg/160 mg tablet one tablet q.12h. x3 days.,16.  Levaquin 750 mg one tablet p.o. x3 days.,The medications listed above, one listed as p.o. are to be administered via the J-tube.,FOLLOWUP:  ,The patient was instructed to see Dr. X in approximately five to seven days.  She was given a lab sheet to have a CBC with diff as well as a CMP to be drawn prior to her appointment with Dr. X.  She is instructed to follow up with Dr. Y if her condition changes regarding her colon cancer.  She was instructed to follow up with Dr. Z, her oncologist, regarding the positive lymph nodes.  We were unable to contact Dr. Z, but his telephone number was given to the patient and she was instructed to make a followup appointment.  She was also instructed to follow up with her endocrinologist, Dr. A, regarding any insulin pump adjustments, which were necessary and she was also instructed to follow up with Dr. B, her gastroenterologist, regarding any issues with her J-tube.,CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: , Stable.
XYZ,RE:  ABC,MEDICAL RECORD#:  123,Dear Dr. XYZ:,I saw ABC back in Neuro-Oncology Clinic today.  He comes in for an urgent visit because of increasing questions about what to do next for his anaplastic astrocytoma.,Within the last several days, he has seen you in clinic and once again discussed whether or not to undergo radiation for his left temporal lesion.  The patient has clearly been extremely ambivalent about this therapy for reasons that are not immediately apparent.  It is clear that his MRI is progressing and that it seems unlikely at this time that anything other than radiation would be particularly effective.  Despite repeatedly emphasizing this; however, the patient still is worried about potential long-term side effects from treatment that frankly seem unwarranted at this particular time.,After seeing you in clinic, he and his friend again wanted to discuss possible changes in the chemotherapy regimen.  They came in with a list of eight possible agents that they would like to be administered within the next two weeks.  They then wanted another MRI to be performed and they were hoping that with the use of this type of approach, they might be able to induce another remission from which he can once again be spared radiation.,From my view, I noticed a man whose language has deteriorated in the week since I last saw him.  This is very worrisome.  Today, for the first time, I felt that there was a definite right facial droop as well.  Therefore, there is no doubt that he is becoming symptomatic from his growing tumor.  It suggests that he is approaching the end of his compliance curve and that the things may rapidly deteriorate in the near future.,Emphasizing this once again, in addition, to recommending steroids I once again tried to convince him to undergo radiation.  Despite an hour, this again amazingly was not possible.  It is not that he does not want treatment, however.  Because I told him that I did not feel it was ethical to just put him on the radical regimen that him and his friend devised, we compromised and elected to go back to Temodar in a low dose daily type regimen.  We would plan on giving 75 mg/sq m everyday for 21 days out of 28 days.  In addition, we will stop thalidomide 100 mg/day.  If he tolerates this for one week, we then agree that we would institute another one of the medications that he listed for us.  At this stage, we are thinking of using Accutane at that point.,While I am very uncomfortable with this type of approach, I think as long as he is going to be monitored closely that we may be able to get away with this for at least a reasonable interval.  In the spirit of compromise, he again consented to be evaluated by radiation and this time, seemed more resigned to the fact that it was going to happen sooner than later.  I will look at this as a positive sign because I think radiation is the one therapy from which he can get a reasonable response in the long term.,I will keep you apprised of followups.  If you have any questions or if I could be of any further assistance, feel free to contact me.,Sincerely,
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Epidural hematoma, cervical spine.,2.  Status post cervical laminectomy, C3 through C7 postop day #10.,3.  Central cord syndrome.,4.  Acute quadriplegia.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Epidural hematoma, cervical spine.,2.  Status post cervical laminectomy, C3 through C7 postop day #10.,3.  Central cord syndrome.,4.  Acute quadriplegia.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Evacuation of epidural hematoma.,2.  Insertion of epidural drain.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,COMPLICATIONS:  ,None.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:  ,200 cc.,HISTORY:  ,This is a 64-year-old female who has had an extensive medical history beginning with coronary artery bypass done on emergent basis while she was in Maryland in April of 2003 after having myocardial infarction.  She was then transferred to Beaumont Hospital, at which point, she developed a sternal abscess.  The patient was treated for the abscess in Beaumont and then subsequently transferred to some other type of facility near her home in Warren, Michigan at which point, she developed a second what was termed minor myocardial infarction.,The patient subsequently recovered in a Cardiac Rehab Facility and approximately two weeks later, brings us to the month of August, at which time she was at home ambulating with a walker or a cane, and then sustained a fall and at that point she was unable to walk and had acute progressive weakness and was identified as having a central cord syndrome based on an MRI, which showed record signal change.  The patient underwent cervical laminectomy and seemed to be improving subjectively in terms of neurologic recovery, but objectively there was not much improvement.  Approximately 10 days after the surgery, brings us to today's date, the health officer was notified of the patient's labored breathing.  When she examined the patient, she also noted that the patient was unable to move her extremities.  She was concerned and called the Orthopedic resident who identified the patient to be truly quadriplegic.  I was notified and ordered the operative crew to report immediately and recommended emergent decompression for the possibility of an epidural hematoma.  On clinical examination, there was swelling in the posterior aspect of the neck.  The patient has no active movement in the upper and lower extremity muscle groups.  Reflexes are absent in the upper and lower extremities.  Long track signs are absent.  Sensory level is at the C4 dermatome.  Rectal tone is absent.  I discussed the findings with the patient and also the daughter.  We discussed the possibility of this is permanent quadriplegia, but at this time, the compression of the epidural space was warranted and certainly for exploration reasons be sure that there is a hematoma there and they have agreed to proceed with surgery.  They are aware that it is possible she had known permanent neurologic status regardless of my intervention and they have agreed to accept this and has signed the consent form for surgery.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE:  ,The patient was taken to OR #1 at ABCD General Hospital on a gurney.  Department of Anesthesia administered fiberoptic intubation and general anesthetic.  A Foley catheter was placed in the bladder.  The patient was log rolled in a prone position on the Jackson table.  Bony prominences were well padded.  The patient's head was placed in the prone view anesthesia head holder.  At this point, the wound was examined closely and there was hematoma at the caudal pole of the wound.  Next, the patient was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  The previous skin incision was reopened.  At this point, hematoma properly exits from the wound.  All sutures were removed and the epidural spaces were encountered at this time.  The self-retaining retractors were placed in the depth of the wound.  Consolidated hematoma was now removed from the wound.  Next, the epidural space was encountered.  There was no additional hematoma in the epidural space or on the thecal sac.  A curette was carefully used to scrape along the thecal sac and there was no film or lining covering the sac.  The inferior edge of the C2 lamina was explored and there was no compression at this level and the superior lamina of T1 was explored and again no compression was identified at this area as well.  Next, the wound was irrigated copiously with one liter of saline using a syringe.  The walls of the wound were explored.  There was no active bleeding.  Retractors were removed at this time and even without pressure on the musculature, there was no active bleeding.  A #19 French Hemovac drain was passed percutaneously at this point and placed into the epidural space.  Fascia was reapproximated with #1 Vicryl sutures, subcutaneous tissue with #3-0 Vicryl sutures.  Steri-Strips covered the incision and dressing was then applied over the incision.  The patient was then log rolled in the supine position on the hospital gurney.  She remained intubated for airway precautions and transferred to the recovery room in stable condition.  Once in the recovery room, she was alert.  She was following simple commands and using her head to nod, but she did not have any active movement of her upper or lower extremities.  Prognosis for this patient is guarded.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  The patient is a 74-year-old white woman who has a past medical history of hypertension for 15 years, history of CVA with no residual hemiparesis and uterine cancer with pulmonary metastases, who presented for evaluation of recent worsening of the hypertension.  According to the patient, she had stable blood pressure for the past 12-15 years on 10 mg of lisinopril.  In August of 2007, she was treated with doxorubicin and, as well as Procrit and her blood pressure started to go up to over 200s.  Her lisinopril was increased to 40 mg daily.  She was also given metoprolol and HCTZ two weeks ago, after she visited the emergency room with increased systolic blood pressure.  Denies any physical complaints at the present time.  Denies having any renal problems in the past.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  As above plus history of anemia treated with Procrit.  No smoking or alcohol use and lives alone.,FAMILY HISTORY:,  Unremarkable.,PRESENT MEDICATIONS: , As above.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , Cardiovascular:  No chest pain.  No palpitations.  Pulmonary:  No shortness of breath, cough, or wheezing.  Gastrointestinal:  No nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.  GU:  No nocturia.  Denies having gross hematuria.  Salt intake is minimal.  Neurological:  Unremarkable, except for history of old CVA.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , Blood pressure today is 182/78.  Examination of the head is unremarkable.  Neck is supple with no JVD.  Lungs are clear.  There is no abdominal bruit.  Extremities 1+ edema bilaterally.,LABORATORY DATA:,  Urinalysis done in the office shows 1+ proteinuria; same is shown by urinalysis done at Hospital.  The creatinine is 0.8.  Renal ultrasound showed possible renal artery stenosis and a 2 cm cyst in the left kidney.  MRA of the renal arteries was essentially unremarkable with no suspicion for renal artery stenosis.,IMPRESSION AND PLAN:,  Accelerated hypertension.  No clear-cut etiology for recent worsening since renal artery stenosis was ruled out by negative MRA.  I could only blame Procrit initiation, as well as possible fluid retention as a cause of the patient's accelerated hypertension.  She was started on hydrochlorothiazide less than two weeks ago with some improvement in her hypertension.  At this point, I would not pursue a diagnosis of renal artery stenosis.  Since she is maxed out on lisinopril and her pulse is 60, I would not increase beta-blocker or ACE inhibitor.  I will continue HCTZ at 24 mg daily.  The patient was also given a sample of Tekturna, which would hopefully improve her systolic blood pressure.  The patient was told to be stick with her salt intake.  She will report to me in 10 days with the result of her blood pressure.  She will also repeat an SMA7 to rule out possible hyperkalemia due to Tekturna.
CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Lortab.,PREVIOUS MEDICAL HISTORY: , Cardiac stent in 2000.,PATIENT'S GOAL: , To eat again by mouth.,STUDY:  ,A trial of Passy-Muir valve was completed to allow the patient to achieve hands-free voicing and also to improve his secretion management.  A clinical swallow evaluation was not completed due to the severity of the patient's mucus and lack of saliva control.,The patient's laryngeal area was palpated during a dry swallow and he does have significantly reduced laryngeal elevation and radiation fibrosis.  The further evaluate of his swallowing function is safety; a modified barium swallow study needs to be concluded to objectively evaluate his swallow safety, and to rule out aspiration.  A trial of neuromuscular electrical stimulation therapy was completed to determine if this therapy protocol will be beneficial and improving the patient's swallowing function and safety.,For his neuromuscular electrical stimulation therapy, the type was BMR with a single mode cycle time is 4 seconds and 12 seconds off with frequency was 60 __________ with a ramp of 2 seconds, phase duration was 220 with an output of 99 milliamps.  Electrodes were placed on the suprahyoid/submandibular triangle with an upright body position, trial length was 10 minutes.  On a pain scale, the patient reported no pain with the electrical stimulation therapy.,FINDINGS:  ,The patient was able to tolerate a 5-minute placement of the Passy-Muir valve.  He reported no discomfort on the inhalation; however, he felt some resistance on exhalation.  Instructions were given on care placement and cleaning of the Passy-Muir valve.  The patient was instructed to buildup tolerance over the next several days of his Passy-Muir valve and to remove the valve at anytime or he is going to be sleeping or napping throughout the day.  The patient's voicing did improve with the Passy-Muir valve due to decreased leakage from his trach secondary to finger occlusion.  Mucus production also seemed to decrease when the Passy-Muir was placed.,On the dry swallow during this evaluation, the patient's laryngeal area is reduced and tissues around his larynx and showed radiation fibrosis.  The patient's neck range of motion appears to be adequate and within normal limits.,A trial of neuromuscular electrical stimulation therapy:,The patient tolerating the neuromuscular electrical stimulation, we did achieve poor passive response, but these muscles were contracting and the larynx was moving upon stimulation.  The patient was able to actively swallow with stimulation approximately 30% of presentation.,DIAGNOSTIC IMPRESSION: , The patient with a history of head and neck cancer status post radiation and chemotherapy with radiation fibrosis, which is impeding his swallowing abilities.  The patient would benefit from outpatient skilled speech therapy for neuromuscular electrical stimulation for muscle reeducation to improve his swallowing function and safety and he would benefit from a placement of a Passy-Muir valve to have hands-free communication.,PLAN OF CARE: , Outpatient skilled speech therapy two times a week to include neuromuscular electrical stimulation therapy, Passy-Muir placement and a completion of the modified barium swallow study.,SHORT-TERM GOALS (6 WEEKS):,1.  Completion of modified barium swallow study.,2.  The patient will coordinate volitional swallow with greater than 75% of the neuromuscular electrical stimulations.,3.  The patient will increase laryngeal elevation by 50% for airway protection.,4.  The patient will tolerate placement of Passy-Muir valve for greater than 2 hours during awaking hours.,5.  The patient will tolerate therapeutic feedings with the speech and language pathologist without signs and symptoms of aspiration.,6.  The patient will decrease mild facial restrictions to the anterior neck by 50% to increase laryngeal movement.,LONG-TERM GOALS (8 WEEKS):,1.  The patient will improve secretion management to tolerable levels.,2.  The patient will increase amount and oral consistency of p.o. intake tolerated without signs and symptoms of aspirations.,3.  The patient will be able to communicate without using finger occlusion with the assistance of a Passy-Muir valve.
EXAM: , Two views of the pelvis.,HISTORY:,  This is a patient post-surgery, 2-1/2 months.  The patient has a history of slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE) bilaterally.,TECHNIQUE: , Frontal and lateral views of the hip and pelvis were evaluated and correlated with the prior film dated MM/DD/YYYY.  Lateral view of the right hip was evaluated.,FINDINGS:,  Frontal view of the pelvis and a lateral view of the right hip were evaluated and correlated with the patient's most recent priors dated MM/DD/YYYY.  Current films reveal stable appearing post-surgical changes.  Again demonstrated is a single intramedullary screw across the left femoral neck and head.  There are 2 intramedullary screws through the greater trochanter of the right femur.  There is a lucency along the previous screw track extending into the right femoral head and neck.  There has been interval removal of cutaneous staples and/or surgical clips.  These were previously seen along the lateral aspect of the right hip joint.,Deformity related to the previously described slipped capital femoral epiphysis is again seen.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Stable-appearing right hip joint status-post pinning.,2.  Interval removal of skin staples as described above.
CHIEF REASON FOR CONSULTATION:,  Evaluate recurrent episodes of uncomfortable feeling in the left upper arm at rest, as well as during exertion for the last one month.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  This 57-year-old black female complains of having pain and discomfort in the left upper arm, especially when she walks and after heavy meals.  This lasts anywhere from a few hours and is not associated with shortness of breath, palpitations, dizziness, or syncope.  Patient does not get any chest pain or choking in the neck or pain in the back.  Patient denies history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, enlarged heart, heart murmur, history suggestive of previous myocardial infarction, or acute rheumatic polyarthritis during childhood.  Her exercise tolerance is one to two blocks for shortness of breath and easy fatigability.,MEDICATIONS:,  Patient does not take any specific medications.,PAST HISTORY:,  The patient underwent hysterectomy in 1986.,FAMILY HISTORY:,  The patient is married, has four children who are doing fine.  Family history is positive for hypertension, congestive heart failure, obesity, cancer, and cerebrovascular accident.,SOCIAL HISTORY:, The patient smokes one pack of cigarettes per day and takes drinks on social occasions.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Chronic otitis media with effusion.,2.  Conductive hearing loss.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Chronic otitis media with effusion.,2.  Conductive hearing loss.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Bilateral tympanostomy with myringotomy tube placement _______ split tube 1.0 mm.,ANESTHESIA:  ,Total IV general mask airway.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:  ,None.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE:,  The patient is a 1-year-old male with a history of chronic otitis media with effusion and conductive hearing loss refractory to outpatient medical therapy.  After risks, complications, consequences, and questions were addressed with the family, a written consent was obtained for the procedure.,PROCEDURE:,  The patient was brought to the operative suite by Anesthesia.  The patient was placed on the operating table in supine position.  After this, the patient was then placed under general mask airway and the patient's head was then turned to the left.,The Zeiss operative microscope and medium-sized ear speculum were placed and the cerumen from the external auditory canals were removed with a cerumen loop to #5 suction.  After this, the tympanic membrane is then brought into direct visualization with no signs of any gross retracted pockets or cholesteatoma.  A myringotomy incision was then made within the posterior inferior quadrant and the middle ear was then suctioned with a #5 suction demonstrating dry contents.  A _____ split tube 1.0 mm was then placed in the myringotomy incision utilizing a alligator forcep.  Cortisporin Otic drops were placed followed by cotton balls.  Attention was then drawn to the left ear with the head turned to the right and the medium sized ear speculum placed.  The external auditory canal was removed off of its cerumen with a #5 suction which led to the direct visualization of the tympanic membrane.  The tympanic membrane appeared with no signs of retraction pockets, cholesteatoma or air fluid levels.  A myringotomy incision was then made within the posterior inferior quadrant with a myringotomy blade after which a _________ split tube 1.0 mm was then placed with an alligator forcep.  After this, the patient had Cortisporin Otic drops followed by cotton balls placed.  The patient was then turned back to Anesthesia and transferred to recovery room in stable condition and tolerated the procedure very well.  The patient will be followed up approximately in one week and was sent home with a prescription for Ciloxan ear drops to be used as directed and with instructions not to get any water in the ears.
REASON FOR VISIT: , This is a new patient evaluation for Mr. A. There is a malignant meningioma.  He is referred by Dr. X.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , He said he has had two surgeries in 07/06 followed by radiation and then again in 08/07.  He then had a problem with seizures, hemiparesis, has been to the hospital, developed C-diff, and is in the nursing home currently.  He is unable to stand at the moment.  He is unable to care for himself. ,I reviewed the information that was sent down with him from the nursing home which includes his medical history.,MEDICATIONS:  ,Keppra 1500 twice a day and Decadron 6 mg four times a day.  His other medicines include oxycodone, an aspirin a day, Prilosec, Dilantin 300 a day, and Flagyl.,FINDINGS:,  On examination, he is lying on the stretcher.  He has oxygen on and has periods of spontaneous hyperventilation.  He is unable to lift his right arm or right leg.  He has an expressive dysphasia and confusion.,I reviewed the imaging studies from summer from the beginning of 10/07, end of 10/07 as well as the current MRI he had last week.  This shows that he has had progression of disease with recurrence along the surface of the brain and there is significant brain edema.  This is a malignant meningioma by diagnosis.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN: , In summary, Mr. A has significant disability and is not independent currently.  I believe that because of this that the likelihood of benefit from surgery is small and there is a very good chance that he would not be able to recover from surgery.  I do not think that surgery will help his quality of life and a need to control the tumor would be dependent on another therapy impacting the tumor.  Given that there are not good therapies and chemotherapy would be the option at the moment, and he certainly is not in a condition where chemotherapy would be given, I believe that surgery would not be in his best interest.  I discussed this both with him, although it is not clear to me how much he understood, as well as his family.
CT HEAD WITHOUT CONTRAST AND CT CERVICAL SPINE WITHOUT CONTRAST,REASON FOR EXAM: , Motor vehicle collision.,CT HEAD WITHOUT CONTRAST,TECHNIQUE:,  Noncontrast axial CT images of the head were obtained.,FINDINGS: , There is no acute intracranial hemorrhage, mass effect, midline shift, or extra-axial fluid collection.  The ventricles and cortical sulci are normal in shape and configuration.  The gray/white matter junctions are well preserved.  There is no calvarial fracture.  The visualized paranasal sinuses and mastoid air cells are clear.,IMPRESSION: , Negative for acute intracranial disease.,CT CERVICAL SPINE,TECHNIQUE:  ,Noncontrast axial CT images of the cervical spine were obtained.  Sagittal and coronal images were obtained.,FINDINGS:,  Straightening of the normal cervical lordosis is compatible with patient position versus muscle spasms.  No fracture or subluxation is seen.  Anterior and posterior osteophyte formation is seen at C5-C6.  No abnormal anterior cervical soft tissue swelling is seen.  No spinal compression is noted.  The atlanto-dens interval is normal.  There is a large retention cyst versus polyp within the right maxillary sinus.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Straightening of the normal cervical lordosis compatible with patient positioning versus muscle spasms.,2.  Degenerative disk and joint disease at C5-C6.,3.  Retention cyst versus polyp of the right maxillary sinus.
OBSERVATIONS: , FEV1 is 3.76, 103% predicted.  FVC is 4.98, 110% predicted.  Ratio is 75.  FEF 25-75 is 3.053, 82% predicted, postbronchodilator improves by 35%.  DLCO is 35, 121% predicted.  Residual volume is 3.04, 139% predicted.  Total lung capacity is 8.34, 120% predicted.,Flow volume loop reviewed.,INTERPRETATION:,  Mild restrictive airflow limitation.  Clinical correlation is recommended.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 65-year-old female who underwent left upper lobectomy for stage IA non-small cell lung cancer.  She returns for a routine surveillance visit.,She has undergone since her last visit an abdominopelvic CT, which shows an enlarging simple cyst of the left kidney.  She underwent barium swallow, which demonstrates a small sliding hiatal hernia with minimal reflux.  She has a minimal delayed emptying secondary tertiary contractions.  PA and lateral chest x-ray from the 11/23/09 was also reviewed, which demonstrates no lesions or infiltrates.  Review of systems, the patient continues to have periodic odynophagia and mid thoracic dysphagia.  This most likely is secondary to tertiary contractions with some delayed emptying.  She has also had increased size of the left calf without tenderness, which has not resolved over the past several months.  She has had a previous DVT in 1975 and 1985.  She denies weight loss, anorexia, fevers, chills, headaches, new aches or pains, cough, hemoptysis, shortness of breath at rest, or dyspnea on exertion.,MEDICATIONS: , Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d., Spiriva 10 mcg q.d., and albuterol p.r.n.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , BP:  117/78.  RR:  18.  P:  93.,WT:  186 lbs.  RAS:  100%.,HEENT:  Mucous membranes are moist.  No cervical or supraclavicular lymphadenopathy.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,CARDIAC:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs.,EXTREMITIES:  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.,NEURO:  Alert and oriented x3.  Cranial nerves II through XII intact.,ASSESSMENT: , The patient has no evidence of disease now status post left upper lobectomy for stage IA non-small cell lung cancer 13 months ago.,PLAN:  ,She is to return to clinic in six months with a chest CT.  She was given a prescription for an ultrasound of the left lower extremity to rule out DVT.  She will be called with the results.  She was given a prescription for nifedipine 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. esophageal spasm.
EXAM:  ,CT maxillofacial for trauma.,FINDINGS: , CT examination of the maxillofacial bones was performed without contrast.  Coronal reconstructions were obtained for better anatomical localization.,There is normal appearance to the orbital rims.  The ethmoid, sphenoid, and frontal sinuses are clear.  There is polypoid mucosal thickening involving the floor of the maxillary sinuses bilaterally.  There is soft tissue or fluid opacification of the ostiomeatal complexes bilaterally.  The nasal bones appear intact.  The zygomatic arches are intact.  The temporomandibular joints are intact and demonstrate no dislocations or significant degenerative changes.  The mandible and maxilla are intact.  There is soft tissue swelling seen involving the right cheek.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Mucosal thickening versus mucous retention cyst involving the maxillary sinuses bilaterally.  There is also soft tissue or fluid opacification of the ostiomeatal complexes bilaterally.,2.  Mild soft tissue swelling about the right cheek.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,1.  Herniated nucleus pulposus, C5-C6.,2.  Herniated nucleus pulposus, C6-C7.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,1.  Herniated nucleus pulposus, C5-C6.,2.  Herniated nucleus pulposus, C6-C7.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED,1.  Anterior cervical decompression, C5-C6.,2.  Anterior cervical decompression, C6-C7.,3.  Anterior spine instrumentation.,4.  Anterior cervical spine fusion, C5-C6.,5.  Anterior cervical spine fusion, C6-C7.,6.  Application of machined allograft at C5-C6.,7.  Application of machined allograft at C6-C7.,8.  Allograft, structural at C5-C6.,9.  Allograft, structural at C6-C7.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,PREOPERATIVE NOTE:  ,This patient is a 47-year-old male with chief complaint of severe neck pain and left upper extremity numbness and weakness.  Preoperative MRI scan showed evidence of herniated nucleus pulposus at C5-C6 and C6-C7 on the left.  The patient has failed epidural steroid injections.  Risks and benefits of the above procedure were discussed with the patient including bleeding, infection, muscle loss, nerve damage, paralysis, and death.,OPERATIVE REPORT: , The patient was taken to the OR and placed in the supine position.  After general endotracheal anesthesia was obtained, the patient's neck was sterilely prepped and draped in the usual fashion.  A horizontal incision was made on the left side of the neck at the level of the C6 vertebral body.  It was taken down through the subcutaneous tissues exposing the platysmus muscle.  The platysmus muscle was incised along the skin incision and the deep cervical fascia was bluntly dissected down to the anterior cervical spine.  An #18 gauge needle was placed in the C5-C6 interspace and the intraoperative x-ray confirmed that this was the appropriate level.  Next, the longus colli muscles were resected laterally on both the right and left side, and then a complete anterior cervical discectomy was performed.  The disk was very degenerated and brown in color.  There was an acute disk herniation through posterior longitudinal ligament.  The posterior longitudinal ligament was removed and a bilateral foraminotomy was performed.  Approximately, 5 mm of the nerve root on both the right and left side was visualized.  A ball-ended probe could be passed up the foramen.  Bleeding was controlled with bipolar electrocautery and Surgiflo.  The end plates of C5 and C6 were prepared using a high-speed burr and a 6-mm lordotic machined allograft was malleted into place.  There was good bony apposition both proximally and distally.  Next, attention was placed at the C6-C7 level.  Again, the longus colli muscles were resected laterally and a complete anterior cervical discectomy at C6-C7 was performed.  The disk was degenerated and there was acute disk herniation in the posterior longitudinal ligament on the left.  The posterior longitudinal ligament was removed.  A bilateral foraminotomy was performed.  Approximately, 5 mm of the C7 nerve root was visualized on both sides.  A micro nerve hook was able to be passed up the foramen easily.  Bleeding was controlled with bipolar electrocautery and Surgiflo.  The end plates at C6-C7 were then prepared using a high-speed burr and then a 7-mm machined lordotic allograft was malleted into place.  There was good bony apposition, both proximally and distally.  Next, a 44-mm Blackstone low-profile anterior cervical plate was applied to the anterior cervical spine with six 14 mm screws.  Intraoperative x-ray confirmed appropriate positioning of the plate and the graft.  The wound was then copiously irrigated with normal saline and bacitracin.  There was no active bleeding upon closure of the wound.  A small drain was placed deep.  The platysmal muscle was closed with 3-0 Vicryl.  The skin was closed with #4-0 Monocryl.  Mastisol and Steri-Strips were applied.  The patient was monitored throughout the procedure with free-running EMGs and SSEPs and there were no untoward events.  The patient was awoken and taken to the recovery room in satisfactory condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Abnormal uterine bleeding.,2.  Enlarged fibroid uterus.,3.  Hypermenorrhea.,4.  Intermenstrual spotting.,5.  Thickened endometrium per ultrasound of a 2 cm lining.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Abnormal uterine bleeding.,2.  Enlarged fibroid uterus.,3.  Hypermenorrhea.,4.  Intermenstrual spotting.,5.  Thickened endometrium per ultrasound of a 2 cm lining.,6.  Grade 1+ rectocele.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:  ,D&C and hysteroscopy.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,HISTORY: , The patient is a 48-year-old para 2, vaginal delivery.  She has heavy periods lasting 7 to 14 days with spotting in between her periods.  The patient's uterus is 12.2 x 6.2 x 5.3 cm.  Her endometrial thickness is 2 cm.  Her adnexa is within normal limits.  The patient and I had a long discussion.  Consent was reviewed in layman's terms.  The patient understood the foreseeable risks and complications, the alternative treatments and procedure itself and recovery.  Questions were answered.  The patient was taken back to the operative suite.  The patient underwent pelvic examination and then carefully placed in dorsal lithotomy position.  The patient had excellent femoral pulses and there was no excessive extension or hyperflexion of the lower extremities.  The patient's history is that she is at risk for development of condyloma.  The patient's husband was found to have a laryngeal papillomatosis.  She has had a laparotomy, which is an infraumbilical incision appendectomy, a laparoscopy, and bilateral tubal ligation.  Her uterus appears to be mobile by 12-week size.  There is a good descend.  There appears to be no adnexal abnormalities.  Uterus is 12-week sized and has fibroids, it is boggy and probably has a component of adenomyosis.  The patient's cervix was dilated without difficulty utilizing Circon ACMI hysteroscope with a 12-degree lens.  The patient underwent hysteroscopy.  The outflow valve was opened at all times.  The inflow valve was opened just to achieve appropriate distension.  The patient did have no evidence of trauma of the cervix.  No Trendelenburg as we were in room #9.  The patient also had the bag held two fingerbreadths above the level of the heart.  The patient was seen.  There is a 2 x 3 cm focal thickening of the posterior wall of the uterus' endometrial lining, a more of a polypoid nature.  The patient also has one in the fundal area.  The thickened tissue was removed via sharp curettage.  Therefore, we reinserted the hysteroscope.  It appeared that there was an appropriate curettage and that all areas of suspicion were indeed removed.  The patient's procedure was ended with specimen being obtained and sent to Department of Pathology.  We will follow her up in the office.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,1.  Left neck pain with left upper extremity radiculopathy.,2.  Left C6-C7 neuroforaminal stenosis secondary to osteophyte.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,1.  Left neck pain with left upper extremity radiculopathy.,2.  Left C6-C7 neuroforaminal stenosis secondary to osteophyte.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE,1.  Anterior cervical discectomy with decompression C6-C7.,2.  Arthrodesis with anterior interbody fusion C6-C7.,3.  Spinal instrumentation using Pioneer 20 mm plate and four 12 x 4.0 mm screws.,4.  PEEK implant 7 mm.,5.  Allograft using Vitoss.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal anesthesia.,FINDINGS: , Showed osteophyte with a disc complex on the left C6-C7 neural foramen.,FLUIDS:  ,1800 mL of crystalloids.,URINE OUTPUT: , No Foley catheter.,DRAINS:  ,Round French 10 JP drain.,SPECIMENS,:  None.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:,  250 mL.,The need for an assistant is important in this case, since her absence would mean prolonged operative time and may increase operative morbidity and mortality.,CONDITION: , Extubated with stable vital signs.,INDICATIONS FOR THE OPERATION:,  This is the case of a very pleasant 46-year-old Caucasian female with subarachnoid hemorrhage secondary to ruptured left posteroinferior cerebellar artery aneurysm, which was clipped.  The patient last underwent a right frontal ventricular peritoneal shunt on 10/12/07.  This resulted in relief of left chest pain, but the patient continued to complaint of persistent pain to the left shoulder and left elbow.  She was seen in clinic on 12/11/07 during which time MRI of the left shoulder showed no evidence of rotator cuff tear.  She did have a previous MRI of the cervical spine that did show an osteophyte on the left C6-C7 level.  Based on this, negative MRI of the shoulder, the patient was recommended to have anterior cervical discectomy with anterior interbody fusion at C6-C7 level.  Operation, expected outcome, risks, and benefits were discussed with her.  Risks include, but not exclusive of bleeding and infection, bleeding could be soft tissue bleeding, which may compromise airway and may result in return to the operating room emergently for evacuation of said hematoma.  There is also the possibility of bleeding into the epidural space, which can compress the spinal cord and result in weakness and numbness of all four extremities as well as impairment of bowel and bladder function.  Should this occur, the patient understands that she needs to be brought emergently back to the operating room for evacuation of said hematoma.  There is also the risk of infection, which can be superficial and can be managed with p.o. antibiotics.  However, the patient may develop deeper-seated infection, which may require return to the operating room.  Should the infection be in the area of the spinal instrumentation, this will cause a dilemma since there might be a need to remove the spinal instrumentation and/or allograft.  There is also the possibility of potential injury to the esophageus, the trachea, and the carotid artery.  There is also the risks of stroke on the right cerebral circulation should an undiagnosed plaque be propelled from the right carotid.  There is also the possibility hoarseness of the voice secondary to injury to the recurrent laryngeal nerve.  There is also the risk of pseudoarthrosis and hardware failure.  She understood all of these risks and agreed to have the procedure performed.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , The patient brought to the operating room, awake, alert, not in any form of distress.  After smooth induction and intubation, a Foley catheter was inserted.  Monitoring leads were placed by Premier Neurodiagnostics and this revealed normal findings, which remained normal during the entire case.  The EMGs were silent and there was no evidence of any stimulation.  After completion of the placement of the monitoring leads, the patient was positioned supine on the operating table with the neck placed on hyperextension.  The head was supported on a foam doughnut.  The right cervical area was then exposed by turning the head about 45 to 60 degrees to the left side.  A linear incision was made about two to three fingerbreadths from the suprasternal notch along the anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle to a distance of about 3 cm.  The area was then prepped with DuraPrep.,After sterile drapes were laid out, the incision was made using a scalpel blade #10.  Wound edge bleeders were controlled with bipolar coagulation and a hot knife was utilized to carry the dissection down to the platysma in the similar fashion as the skin incision.  The anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle was identified as well as the sternohyoid/omohyoid muscles.  Dissection was then carried lateral and superior to the omohyoid muscle and lateral to the esophagus and the trachea, and medial to the sternocleidomastoid muscle and the carotid sheath.  The prevertebral fascia was identified and cut sharply.  A localizing x-ray verified the marker to be at the C6-C7 interspace.  Proceeded to the strip the longus colli muscles off the vertebral body of C6 and C7.  Self-retaining retractor was then laid out.  The annulus was then cut in a quadrangular fashion and piecemeal removal of the dura was done using a straight pituitary rongeurs, 3 and 5 mm burr.  The interior endplate of C6 and superior endplate of C7 was likewise was drilled down together with posteroinferior edge of C6 and the posterior superior edge of C7.  There was note of a new osteophyte on the left C6-C7 foramen.  This was carefully drilled down.  After decompression and removal of pressure, there was noted to be release of the epidural space with no significant venous bleeders.  They were controlled with slight bipolar coagulation, temporary tamponade with Gelfoam.  After this was completed, Valsalva maneuver showed no evidence of any CSF leakage.  A 7-mm implant was then tapped into placed after its interior was packed with Vitoss.  The plate was then applied and secured in place with four 12 x 4.7 mm screws.  Irrigation of the area was done.  A round French 10 JP drain was laid out over the graft and exteriorized through a separate stab incision on the patient's right inferiorly.  The wound was then closed in layers with Vicryl 3-0 inverted interrupted sutures as well as Vicryl 4-0 subcuticular stitch for the dermis.  The wound was reinforced with Dermabond.  The catheter was anchored to the skin with nylon 3-0 stitch and dressing was applied only at the exit site.  C-collar was placed and the patient was transferred to Recovery after extubation.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Cervical spondylosis, status post complex anterior cervical discectomy, corpectomy, decompression and fusion.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Cervical spondylosis, status post complex anterior cervical discectomy, corpectomy, decompression and fusion, and potentially unstable cervical spine.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE:  ,Application of PMT large halo crown and vest.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , None.,ANESTHESIA:  ,Local, conscious sedation with Morphine and Versed.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.  Post-fixation x-rays, nonalignment, no new changes.  Post-fixation neurologic examination normal.,CLINICAL HISTORY:  ,The patient is a 41-year-old female who presented to me with severe cervical spondylosis and myelopathy.  She was referred to me by Dr. X.  The patient underwent a complicated anterior cervical discectomy, 2-level corpectomy, spinal cord decompression and fusion with fibular strut and machine allograft in the large cervical plate.  Surgery had gone well, and the patient has done well in the last 2 days.  She is neurologically improved and is moving all four extremities.  No airway issues.  It was felt that the patient was now a candidate for a halo vest placement given that chance of going to the OR were much smaller.  She was consented for the procedure, and I sought the help of ABC and felt that a PMT halo would be preferable to a Bremer halo vest.  The patient had this procedure done at the bedside, in the SICU room #1.  I used a combination of some morphine 1 mg and Versed 2 mg for this procedure.  I also used local anesthetic, with 1% Xylocaine and epinephrine a total of 15 to 20 cc.,PROCEDURE DETAILS:,  The patient's head was positioned on some towels, the retroauricular region was shaved, and the forehead and the posterolateral periauricular regions were prepped with Betadine.  A large PMT crown was brought in and fixed to the skull with pins under local anesthetic.  Excellent fixation achieved.  It was lateral to the supraorbital nerves and 1 fingerbreadth above the brows and the ear pinnae.,I then put the vest on, by sitting the patient up, stabilizing her neck.  The vest was brought in from the front as well and connected.  Head was tilted appropriately, slightly extended, and in the midline.  All connections were secured and pins were torqued and tightened.,During the procedure, the patient did fine with no significant pain.,Post-procedure, she is neurologically intact and she remained intact throughout.  X-rays of the cervical spine AP, lateral, and swimmer views showed excellent alignment of the hardware construct in the graft with no new changes.,The patient will be subjected to a CT scan to further define the alignment, and barring any problems, she will be ambulating with the halo on.,The patient will undergo pin site care as per protocol, and likely she will go in the next 2 to 3 days.  Her prognosis indeed is excellent, and she is already about 90% or so better from her surgery.  She is also on a short course of Decadron, which we will wean off in due course.,The matter was discussed with the patient and the patient's family.
CC:, Left sided weakness.,HX:, 74 y/o RHF awoke from a nap at 11:00 AM on 11/22/92 and felt weak on her left side. She required support on that side to ambulate. In addition, she felt spoke as though she "was drunk." Nevertheless, she was able to comprehend what was being spoken around her. Her difficulty with speech completely resolved by 12:00 noon. She was brought to UIHC ETC at 8:30AM on 11/23/92 for evaluation.,MEDS:, none. ,ALLERGIES:,  ASA/ PCN both cause rash.,PMH:, 1)?HTN. 2)COPD. 3)h/o hepatitis (unknown type). 4)Macular degeneration.,SHX:, Widowed; lives alone. Denied ETOH/Tobacco/illicit drug use.,FHX:, unremarkable.,EXAM: , BP191/89 HR68 RR16 37.2C,MS: A & O to person, place and time. Speech fluent; without dysarthria. Intact naming, comprehension, and repetition.,CN: Central scotoma, OS (old). Mild upper lid ptosis, OD (old per picture). Lower left facial weakness.,Motor: Mild Left hemiparesis (4+ to 5- strength throughout affected side). No mention of muscle tone in chart.,Sensory: unremarkable.,Coord: impaired FNF and HKS movement secondary to weakness.,Station: Left pronator drift. No Romberg sign seen.,Gait: Left hemiparetic gait with decreased LUE swing.,Reflexes: 3/3+ biceps and triceps. 3/3+ patellae. 2/3+ ankles with 3-4beats of non-sustained ankle clonus on left. Plantars: Left babinski sign; and flexor on right.,General Exam: 2/6 SEM at left sternal border.,COURSE:, GS, CBC, PT, PTT, CK, ESR were within normal limits. ABC 7.4/46/63 on room air. EKG showed a sinus rhythm with right bundle branch block. MRI brain, 11/23/95, revealed a right pontine pyramidal tract infarction. She was treated with Ticlopidine 250mg bid. On 11/26/92, her left hemiparesis worsened. A HCT, 11/27/92, was unremarkable. The patient was treated with IV Heparin. This was discontinued the following day when her strength returned to that noted on 11/23/95. On 11/27/92, she developed angina and was ruled out for MI by serial EKG and cardiac enzyme studies. Carotid duplex showed 0-15% bilateral ICA stenosis and antegrade vertebral artery flow bilaterally. Transthoracic echocardiogram revealed aortic insufficiency only. Transesophageal echocardiogram revealed trivial mitral and tricuspid regurgitation, aortic valvular fibrosis. There was calcification and possible thrombus seen in the descending aorta. Cardiology did not feel the later was an indication for anticoagulation. She was discharged home on Isordil 20 tid, Metoprolol 25mg q12hours, and Ticlid 250mg bid.
TITLE OF OPERATION: , Right suboccipital craniectomy for resection of tumor using the microscope modifier 22 and cranioplasty.,INDICATION FOR SURGERY: , The patient with a large 3.5 cm acoustic neuroma.  The patient is having surgery for resection.  There was significant cerebellar peduncle compression.  The tumor was very difficult due to its size as well as its adherence to the brainstem and the nerve complex.  The case took 12 hours.  This was more difficult and took longer than the usual acoustic neuroma.,PREOP DIAGNOSIS: , Right acoustic neuroma.,POSTOP DIAGNOSIS: , Right acoustic neuroma.,PROCEDURE:,  The patient was brought to the operating room.  General anesthesia was induced in the usual fashion.  After appropriate lines were placed, the patient was placed in Mayfield 3-point head fixation, hold into a right park bench position to expose the right suboccipital area.  A time-out was settled with nursing and anesthesia, and the head was shaved, prescrubbed with chlorhexidine, prepped and draped in the usual fashion.  The incision was made and cautery was used to expose the suboccipital bone.  Once the suboccipital bone was exposed under the foramen magnum, the high speed drill was used to thin out the suboccipital bone and the craniectomy carried out with Leksell and insertion with Kerrison punches down to the rim of the foramen magnum as well as laterally to the edge of the sigmoid sinus and superiorly to the edge of the transverse sinus.  The dura was then opened in a cruciate fashion, the cisterna magna was drained, which nicely relaxed the cerebellum.  The dura leaves were held back with the 4-0 Nurolon.  The microscope was then brought into the field, and under the microscope, the cerebellar hemisphere was elevated.  Laterally, the arachnoid was very thick.  This was opened with bipolar and microscissors and this allowed for the cerebellum to be further mobilized until the tumor was identified.  The tumor was quite large and filled up the entire lateral aspect of the right posterior fossa.  Initially two retractors were used, one on the tentorium and one inferiorly.  The arachnoid was taken down off the tumor.  There were multiple blood vessels on the surface, which were bipolared.  The tumor surface was then opened with microscissors and the Cavitron was used to began debulking the lesion.  This was a very difficult resection due to the extreme stickiness and adherence to the cerebellar peduncle and the lateral cerebellum; however, as the tumor was able to be debulked, the edge began to be mobilized.  The redundant capsule was bipolared and cut out to get further access to the center of the tumor.  Working inferiorly and then superiorly, the tumor was taken down off the tentorium as well as out the 9th, 10th or 11th nerve complex.  It was very difficult to identify the 7th nerve complex.  The brainstem was identified above the complex.  Similarly, inferiorly the brainstem was able to be identified and cotton balls were placed to maintain this plain.  Attention was then taken to try identify the 7th nerve complex.  There were multitude of veins including the lateral pontine vein, which were coming right into this area.  The lateral pontine vein was maintained.  Microscissors and bipolar were used to develop the plain, and then working inferiorly, the 7th nerve was identified coming off the brainstem.  A number 1 and number 2 microinstruments were then used to began to develop the plane.  This then allowed for the further appropriate plane medially to be identified and cotton balls were then placed.  A number 11 and number 1 microinstrument continued to be used to free up the tumor from the widely spread out 7th nerve.  Cavitron was used to debulk the lesion and then further dissection was carried out.  The nerve stimulated beautifully at the brainstem level throughout this.  The tumor continued to be mobilized off the lateral pontine vein until it was completely off.  The Cavitron was used to debulk the lesion out back laterally towards the area of the porus.  The tumor was debulked and the capsule continued to be separated with number 11microinstrument as well as the number 1 microinstrument to roll the tumor laterally up towards the porus.  At this point, the capsule was so redundant, it was felt to isolate the nerve in the porus.  There was minimal bulk remaining intracranially.  All the cotton balls were removed and the nerve again stimulated beautifully at the brainstem.  Dr. X then came in and scrubbed into the case to drill out the porus and remove the piece of the tumor that was left in the porus and coming out of the porus.,I then scrubbed back into case once Dr. X had completed removing this portion of the tumor.  There was no tumor remaining at this point.  I placed some Norian in the porus to seal any air cells, although there were no palpated.  An intradural space was then irrigated thoroughly.  There was no bleeding.  The nerve was attempted to be stimulated at the brainstem level, but it did not stimulate at this time.  The dura was then closed with 4-0 Nurolons in interrupted fashion.  A muscle plug was used over one area.  Duragen was laid and strips over the suture line followed by Hemaseel.  Gelfoam was set over this and then a titanium cranioplasty was carried out.  The wound was then irrigated thoroughly.  O Vicryls were used to close the deep muscle and fascia, 3-0 Vicryl for subcutaneous tissue, and 3-0 nylon on the skin.,The patient was extubated and taken to the ICU in stable condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: ,1.  Bilateral breast carcinoma.,2.  Chemotherapy required.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Bilateral breast carcinoma.,2.  Chemotherapy required.,OPERATION: , Right subclavian Port-a-Cath insertion.,FINDINGS AND PROCEDURE:  ,With the patient under satisfactory general orotracheal anesthesia and in the supine position, the right upper anterior chest, neck, and arm were prepared with Betadine in the usual fashion.  The skin, subcutaneous tissue, and fascia of the pectoralis major muscle medially beneath the inferior third of the right clavicle was infiltrated with 0.5% Marcaine with epinephrine.  An incision transverse, parallel, and inferior to the middle third of the right clavicle was performed.  A subcutaneous pocket on the surface of the pectoralis major muscle was created.  The muscular fascia was also infiltrated with 0.5% Marcaine with epinephrine.  With the patient in the Trendelenburg position, utilizing the provided introducer needle, the right subclavian vein was cannulated.  A guidewire was passed without difficulty and the needle was removed.  Fluoroscopy confirmed satisfactory position of the guidewire in the right atrium.  A dilator and sheath was passed over the guidewire.  The guidewire and dilator were removed and a provided catheter was inserted through the sheath and the sheath was carefully withdrawn.  Fluoroscopy again confirmed satisfactory position of the catheter and the catheter under fluoroscopic guidance was retracted into the superior vena cava.  The catheter had been preflushed with dilute heparin solution (100 units/mL).  The port, which had been preflushed with saline, was attached to the catheter at approximately 13 cm level.  The locking cap had been placed on the catheter.  The port was connected to the catheter and the locking cap was secured.  The port was again flushed with dilute heparin solution and placed within the subcutaneous pocket.  Fluoroscopy again confirmed satisfactory position.  A hard copy of the fluoroscopy was obtained.  The catheter and port were secured to the pectoralis fascia in four locations with 2-0 Prolene suture.  Site was irrigated with saline.  Hemostasis was verified.  The subcutaneous tissue was approximated with interrupted 2-0 Vicryl suture.  The subcutaneous and dermis were closed with a running subcuticular 3-0 Vicryl suture.  A 0.25-inch Steri-Strips were applied.  The provided needle and butterfly attachment was flushed with saline, passed through the skin into the port, and then flushed again with dilute heparin solution thus confirmed satisfactory.  The site was dressed with Tegaderm type dressing and the needle catheters were covered with 4x4's and paper tape.  Estimated blood loss was less than 15 mL.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and left the operating room in good condition.
DIAGNOSIS ON ADMISSION: , Gastrointestinal bleed.,DIAGNOSES ON DISCHARGE,1. Gastrointestinal bleed, source undetermined, but possibly due to internal hemorrhoids.,2. Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.,3. Hypothyroidism.,PROCEDURE:,  Colonoscopy.,FINDINGS:,  Poor prep with friable internal hemorrhoids, but no gross lesions, no source of bleed.,HOSPITAL COURSE:  ,The patient was admitted to the emergency room by Dr. X. He apparently had an NG tube placed in the emergency room with gastric aspirate revealing no blood.  Dr. Y Miller saw him in consultation and recommended a colonoscopy.  A bowel prep was done.  H&Hs were stable.  His most recent H&H was 38.6/13.2 that was this morning.  His H&H at admission was 41/14.3.  The patient had the bowel prep that revealed no significant bleeding.  His vital signs are stable.  He is continuing on his usual medications of Imdur, metoprolol, and Synthroid.  His Plavix is discontinued.  He is given IV Protonix.  I am hesitant to use Prilosec or Protonix because of his history of pancreatitis associated with Prilosec.,The patient's PT/INR was 1.03, PTT 25.8.  Chemistry panel was unremarkable.  The patient was given a regular diet after his colonoscopy today.  He tolerated it well and is being discharged home.  He will be followed closely as an outpatient.  He will continue his Pepcid 40 mg at night, Imdur, Synthroid, and metoprolol as prior to admission.  He will hold his Plavix for now.  They will call me for further dark stools and will avoid Pepto-Bismol.  They will follow up in the office on Thursday.
EXAM: , Coronary artery CTA with calcium scoring and cardiac function.,HISTORY: , Chest pain.,TECHNIQUE AND FINDINGS: , Coronary artery CTA was performed on a Siemens dual-source CT scanner.  Post-processing on a Vitrea workstation.  150 mL Ultravist 370 was utilized as the intravenous contrast agent.  Patient did receive nitroglycerin sublingually prior to the contrast.,HISTORY: , Significant for high cholesterol, overweight, chest pain, family history,Patient's total calcium score (Agatston) is 10. his places the patient just below the 75th percentile for age.,The LAD has a moderate area of stenosis in its midportion due to a focal calcified plaque.  The distal LAD was unreadable while the proximal was normal.  The mid and distal right coronary artery are not well delineated due to beam-hardening artifact.  The circumflex is diminutive in size along its proximal portion.  Distal is not readable.,Cardiac wall motion within normal limits.  No gross pulmonary artery abnormality however they are not well delineated.  A full report was placed on the patient's chart.  Report was saved to PACS.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: , Iron deficiency anemia.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , This is a very pleasant 19-year-old woman, who was recently hospitalized with iron deficiency anemia.  She was seen in consultation by Dr. X.  She underwent a bone marrow biopsy on 07/21/10, which showed a normal cellular marrow with trilineage hematopoiesis.  On 07/22/10, her hemoglobin was 6.5 and therefore she was transfused 2 units of packed red blood cells.  Her iron levels were 5 and her percent transferrin was 2.  There was no evidence of hemolysis.  Of note, she had a baby 5 months ago; however she does not describe excessive bleeding at the time of birth.  She currently has an IUD, so she is not menstruating.  She was discharged from the hospital on iron supplements.  She denies any fevers, chills, or night sweats.  No lymphadenopathy.  No nausea or vomiting.  No change in bowel or bladder habits.  She specifically denies melena or hematochezia.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS: , Iron supplements and Levaquin.,ALLERGIES: , Penicillin.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  As per the HPI, otherwise negative.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  ,She is status post birth of a baby girl 5 months ago.  She is G1, P1.  She is currently using an IUD for contraception.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , She has no tobacco use.  She has rare alcohol use.  No illicit drug use.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Her maternal grandmother had stomach cancer.  There is no history of hematologic malignancies.,PHYSICAL EXAM:,GEN:
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Rotator cuff tear, right shoulder.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Superior labrum anterior and posterior lesion (peel-back), right shoulder.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Arthroscopy with arthroscopic SLAP lesion.,2.  Repair of soft tissue subacromial decompression rotator cuff repair, right shoulder.,SPECIFICATIONS: , The entire operative procedure was done in Inpatient Operating Suite, room #1 at ABCD General Hospital.  This was done under a interscalene block anesthetic and subsequent general anesthetic in the modified beachchair position.,HISTORY AND GROSS FINDINGS:  ,This is a 54-year-old white female suffering an increasing right shoulder pain for a few months prior to surgical intervention.  She had an injury to her right shoulder when she fell off a bike.  She was diagnosed preoperatively with a rotated cuff tear.,Intra-articularly besides we noted a large SLAP lesion, superior and posterior to the attachment of the glenoid labrum from approximately 12:30 back to 10:30.  This acted as a peel-back type of mechanism and was displaced into the joint beyond the superior rim of the glenoid.  This was an obvious avulsion into subchondral bone with bone exposed.  The anterior aspect had degenerative changes, but did not have evidence of avulsion.  The subscapular was noted to be intact.  On the joint side of the supraspinatus, there was noted to be a laminated type of tearing to the rotated cuff to the anterior and mid-aspect of the supraspinatus attachment.,This was confirmed subacromially.  The patient had a type-I plus acromion in outlet view and thus it was elected to not perform a subacromial decompression, but soft tissue release of the CA ligament in a releasing resection type fashion.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: , The patient was placed supine upon the operative table after she was given interscalene and then general anesthesia by the Anesthesia Department.  She was safely placed in a modified beachchair position.  She was prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner.  The portals were created from outside the ends, posterior to the scope and anteriorly for an intraoperative portal and then laterally.  She had at least two other portals appropriate for both repair mechanisms described above.,Attention was then turned to the SLAP lesion.  The edges were debrided both on the bony side as well as soft tissue side.  We used the anterior portal to lift up the mechanism and created a superolateral portal through the rotator cuff and into the edge of the labrum.  Further debridement was carried out here.  A drill hole was made just on the articular surface superiorly for a knotless anchor.  A pull-through suture of #2 fiber wire was utilized with the ________.  This was pulled through.  It was tied to the leader suture of the knotless anchor.  This was pulled through and one limb of the anchor loop was grabbed and the anchor impacted with a mallet.  There was excellent fixation of the superior labrum.  It was noted to be solid and intact.  The anchor was placed safely in the bone.  There was no room for further knotless or other anchors.  After probing was carried out, hard copy Polaroid was obtained.,Attention was then turned to the articular side for the rotator cuff.  It was debrided.  Subchondral debridement was carried out to the tuberosity also.  Care was taken to go to the subchondral region but not beyond.  The bone was satisfactory.,Scope was then placed in the subacromial region.  Gross bursectomy was carried out with in the lateral portal.  This was done throughout as well as in the gutters anterolaterally and posteriorly.  Debridement was carried out further to the rotator cuff.  Two types of fixation were carried out, one with a superolateral portal a drill hole was made and anchor of the _knotless suture placed after PDS leader suture placed with a Caspari punch.  There was an excellent reduction of the tear posteriorly and then anteriorly.  Tendon to tendon repair was accomplished by placing a fiber wire across the tendon and tying sutured down through the anterolateral portal.  This was done with a sliding stitch and then two half stitches.  There was excellent reduction of the tear.,Attention was then turned to the CA ligament.  It was released along with periosteum and the undersurface of the anterior acromion.  The CA ligament was not only released but resected.  There was noted to be no evidence of significant spurring with only a mostly type-I acromion.  Thus, it was not elected to perform subacromial decompression for bone with soft tissue only.  A pain buster catheter was placed separately.  It was cut to length.  An interrupted #4-0 nylon was utilized for portal closure.  A 0.5% Marcaine was instilled subacromially.  Adaptic, 4x4s, ABDs, and Elastoplast tape placed for dressing.  The patient's arm was placed in a arm sling.  She was transferred to PACU in apparent satisfactory condition.  Expected surgical prognosis on this patient is fair.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Large recurrent right pleural effusion.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Large recurrent right pleural effusion.,PROCEDURE:,1.  Conscious sedation.,2.  Chest tube talc pleurodesis of the right chest.,INDICATIONS: , The patient is a 65-year-old lady with a history of cirrhosis who has developed a recurrent large right pleural effusion.  Chest catheter had been placed previously, and she had been draining up to 1.5 liters of serous fluid a day.  Eventually, this has decreased and a talc pleurodesis is being done to see her pleural effusion does not recur.,SPECIMENS:,  None.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Zero.,NARRATIVE:,  After obtaining informed consent from the patient and her daughter, the patient was assessed and found to be in good condition and a good candidate for conscious sedation.  Vital signs were taken.  These were stable, so the patient was then given initially 0.5 mg of Versed and 2 mg of morphine IV.  After a couple of minutes, she was assessed and found to be awake but calm, so then the chest tube was clamped and then through the chest tube a solution of 120 mL of normal saline containing 5 g of talc and 40 mg of lidocaine were then put into her right chest taking care that no air would go in to create a pneumothorax.  She was then laid on her left lateral decubitus position for 5 minutes and then turned into the right lateral decubitus position for 5 minutes and then the chest tube was unclamped.  The patient was given additional 0.5 mg of Versed and 0.5 mg of Dilaudid IV achieving a state where the patient was comfortable but readily responsive.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  She did complain of up to a 7/10 pain, but quickly this was brought under control.  The chest tube was unclamped.  Now, the patient will be left to rest and she will get a chest x-ray in the morning.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Bladder cancer and left hydrocele.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Bladder cancer and left hydrocele.,OPERATION:  ,Left hydrocelectomy, cystopyelogram, bladder biopsy, and fulguration for hemostasis.,ANESTHESIA:,  Spinal.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:  ,Minimal.,FLUIDS:,  Crystalloid.,BRIEF HISTORY:  ,The patient is a 66-year-old male with history of smoking and hematuria, had bladder tumor, which was dissected.  He has received BCG.  The patient is doing well.  The patient was supposed to come to the OR for surveillance biopsy and pyelograms.  The patient had a large left hydrocele, which was increasingly getting worse and was making it very difficult for the patient to sit to void or put clothes on, etc.  Options such as watchful waiting, drainage in the office, and hydrocelectomy were discussed.  Risks of anesthesia, bleeding, infection, pain, MI, DVT, PE, infection in the scrotum, enlargement of the scrotum, recurrence, and pain were discussed.  The patient understood all the options and wanted to proceed with the procedure.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was brought to the OR.  Anesthesia was applied.  The patient was placed in dorsal lithotomy position.  The patient was prepped and draped in usual sterile fashion.,A transverse scrotal incision was made over the hydrocele sac and the hydrocele fluid was withdrawn.  The sac was turned upside down and sutures were placed.  Careful attention was made to ensure that the cord was open.  The testicle was in normal orientation throughout the entire procedure.  The testicle was placed back into the scrotal sac and was pexed with 4-0 Vicryl to the outside dartos to ensure that there was no risk of torsion.  Orchiopexy was done at 3 different locations.  Hemostasis was obtained using electrocautery.  The sac was closed using 4-0 Vicryl.  The sac was turned upside down so that when it heals, the fluid would not recollect.  The dartos was closed using 2-0 Vicryl and the skin was closed using 4-0 Monocryl and Dermabond was applied.  Incision measured about 2 cm in size.  Subsequently using ACMI cystoscope, a cystoscopy was performed.  The urethra appeared normal.  There was some scarring at the bulbar urethra, but the scope went in through that area very easily into the bladder.  There was a short prostatic fossa.  The bladder appeared normal.  There was some moderate trabeculation throughout the bladder, some inflammatory changes in the bag part, but nothing of much significance.  There were no papillary tumors or stones inside the bladder.  Bilateral pyelograms were obtained using 8-French cone-tip catheter, which appeared normal.  A cold cup biopsy of the bladder was done and was fulgurated for hemostasis.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  The patient was brought to recovery at the end of the procedure after emptying the bladder.,The patient was given antibiotics and was told to take it easy.  No heavy lifting, pushing, or pulling.  Plan was to follow up in about 2 months.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Intrauterine pregnancy at term.,2.  Arrest of dilation. ,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Intrauterine pregnancy at term.,2.  Arrest of dilation.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,  Primary low-transverse cesarean section.,ANESTHESIA: , Epidural.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , 1000 mL.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,FINDINGS:  ,Female infant in cephalic presentation, OP position, weight 9 pounds 8 ounces.  Apgars were 9 at 1 minute and 9 at 5 minutes.  Normal uterus, tubes, and ovaries were noted.,INDICATIONS:  ,The patient is a 20-year-old gravida 1, para 0 female, who presented to labor and delivery in early active labor at 40 and 6/7 weeks gestation.  The patient progressed to 8 cm, at which time, Pitocin was started.  She subsequently progressed to 9 cm, but despite adequate contractions, arrested dilation at 9 cm.  A decision was made to proceed with a primary low transverse cesarean section.,The procedure was described to the patient in detail including possible risks of bleeding, infection, injury to surrounding organs, and possible need for further surgery.  Informed consent was obtained prior to proceeding with the procedure.,PROCEDURE NOTE:  ,The patient was taken to the operating room where epidural anesthesia was found to be adequate.  The patient was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion in the dorsal supine position with a left-ward tilt.  A Pfannenstiel skin incision was made with the scalpel and carried through to the underlying layer of fascia using the Bovie.  The fascia was incised in the midline and extended laterally using Mayo scissors.  Kocher clamps were used to elevate the superior aspect of the fascial incision, which was elevated, and the underlying rectus muscles were dissected off bluntly and using Mayo scissors.  Attention was then turned to the inferior aspect of the fascial incision, which in similar fashion was grasped with Kocher clamps, elevated, and the underlying rectus muscles were dissected off bluntly and using Mayo scissors.  The rectus muscles were dissected in the midline.,The peritoneum was bluntly dissected, entered, and extended superiorly and inferiorly with good visualization of the bladder.  The bladder blade was inserted.  The vesicouterine peritoneum was identified with pickups and entered sharply using Metzenbaum scissors.  This incision was extended laterally and the bladder flap was created digitally.  The bladder blade was reinserted.  The lower uterine segment was incised in a transverse fashion using the scalpel and extended using manual traction.  Clear fluid was noted.  The infant was subsequently delivered atraumatically.  The nose and mouth were bulb suctioned.  The cord was clamped and cut.  The infant was subsequently handed to the awaiting nursery nurse.  Next, cord blood was obtained per the patient's request for cord blood donation, which took several minutes to perform.  Subsequent to the collection of this blood, the placenta was removed spontaneously intact with a 3-vessel cord noted.  The uterus was exteriorized and cleared of all clots and debris.  The uterine incision was repaired in 2 layers using 0 chromic suture.  Hemostasis was visualized.  The uterus was returned to the abdomen.,The pelvis was copiously irrigated.  The uterine incision was reexamined and was noted to be hemostatic.  The rectus muscles were reapproximated in the midline using 3-0 Vicryl.  The fascia was closed with 0 Vicryl, the subcutaneous layer was closed with 3-0 plain gut, and the skin was closed with staples.  Sponge, lap, and instrument counts were correct x2.  The patient was stable at the completion of the procedure and was subsequently transferred to the recovery room in stable condition.
PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Right heart catheterization.,2.  Left heart catheterization.,3.  Left ventriculogram.,4.  Aortogram.,5.  Bilateral selective coronary angiography.,ANESTHESIA:,  1% lidocaine and IV sedation including Versed 1 mg.,INDICATION:,  The patient is a 48-year-old female with severe mitral stenosis diagnosed by echocardiography, moderate aortic insufficiency and moderate to severe pulmonary hypertension who is being evaluated as a part of a preoperative workup for mitral and possible aortic valve repair or replacement.  She has had atrial fibrillation and previous episodes of congestive heart failure.  She has dyspnea on exertion and occasionally orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.,PROCEDURE:,  After the risks, benefits, and alternatives of the above-mentioned procedure were explained to the patient in detail, informed consent was obtained, both verbally and in writing.  The patient was taken to the Cardiac Catheterization Lab where the procedure was performed.  The right inguinal area was thoroughly cleansed with Betadine solution and the patient was draped in the usual manner.  1% lidocaine solution was used to anesthetize the right inguinal area.  Once adequate anesthesia had been attained, a thing wall Argon needle was used to cannulate the right femoral vein.  A guidewire was advanced into the lumen of the vein without resistance.  The needle was removed and the guidewire was secured to the sterile field.  The needle was flushed and then used to cannulate the right femoral artery.  A guidewire was advanced through the lumen of the needle without resistance.  A small nick was made in the skin and the needle was removed.  This pressure was held.  A #6 French arterial sheath was advanced over the guidewire without resistance.  The dilator and guidewire were removed.  FiO2 sample was obtained and the sheath was flushed.  An #8 French sheath was advanced over the guidewire into the femoral vein after which the dilator and guidewire were removed and the sheath was flushed.  A Swan-Ganz catheter was advanced through the venous sheath into a pulmonary capillary was positioned and the balloon was temporarily deflated.  An angulated pigtail catheter was advanced into the left ventricle under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire.  The guidewire was removed.  The catheter was connected to a manifold and flushed.  Left ventricular pressures were continuously measured and the balloon was re-inflated and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was remeasured.  Using dual transducers together and the mitral valve radius was estimated.  The balloon was deflated and mixed venous sample was obtained.  Hemodynamics were measured.  The catheter was pulled back in to the pulmonary artery right ventricle and right atrium.  The right atrial sample was obtained and was negative for shunt.  The Swan-Ganz catheter was then removed and a left ventriculogram was performed in the RAO projection with a single power injection of non-ionic contrast material.  Pullback was then performed which revealed a minimal LV-AO gradient.  Since the patient had aortic insufficiency on her echocardiogram, an aortogram was performed in the LAO projection with a single power injection of non-ionic contrast material.  The pigtail catheter was then removed and a Judkins left #4 catheter was advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire.  The guidewire was removed.  The catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed.  The ostium of the left main coronary artery was carefully engaged.  Using multiple hand injections of non-ionic contrast material, the left coronary system was evaluated in different views.  This catheter was then removed and a Judkins right #4 catheter was advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire.  The guidewire was removed.  The catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed.  The ostium of the right coronary artery was then engaged and using hand injections of non-ionic contrast material, the right coronary system was evaluated in different views.  This catheter was removed.  The sheaths were flushed final time.  The patient was taken to the Postcatheterization Holding Area in stable condition.,FINDINGS:,HEMODYNAMICS: , Right atrial pressure 9 mmHg, right ventricular pressure is 53/14 mmHg, pulmonary artery pressure 62/33 mmHg with a mean of 46 mmHg.  Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure is 29 mmHg.  Left ventricular end diastolic pressure was 13 mmHg both pre and post left ventriculogram.  Cardiac index was 2.4 liters per minute/m2.  Cardiac output 4.0 liters per minute.  The mitral valve gradient was 24.5 and mitral valve area was calculated to be 0.67 cm2.  The aortic valve area is calculated to be 2.08 cm2.,LEFT VENTRICULOGRAM: , No segmental wall motion abnormalities were noted.  The left ventricle was somewhat hyperdynamic with an ejection fraction of 70%.  2+ to 3+ mitral regurgitation was noted.,AORTOGRAM: , There was 2+ to 3+ aortic insufficiency noted.  There was no evidence of aortic aneurysm or dissection.,LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY: , This was a moderate caliber vessel and it is rather long.  It bifurcates into the LAD and left circumflex coronary artery.  No angiographically significant stenosis is noted.,LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING ARTERY:,  The LAD begins as a moderate caliber vessel ________ anteriorly in the intraventricular groove.  It tapers in its mid portion to become small caliber vessel.  Luminal irregularities are present, however, no angiographically significant stenosis is noted.,LEFT CIRCUMFLEX CORONARY ARTERY: , The left circumflex coronary artery begins as a moderate caliber vessel.  Small obtuse marginal branches are noted and this is the nondominant system.  Lumen irregularities are present throughout the circumflex system.  However no angiographically significant stenosis is noted.,RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY: , This is the moderate caliber vessel and it is the dominant system.  No angiographically significant stenosis is noted, however, mild luminal irregularities are noted throughout the vessel.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Nonobstructive coronary artery disease.,2.  Severe mitral stenosis.,3.  2+ to 3+ mitral regurgitation.,4.  2+ to 3+ aortic insufficiency.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Syncopal episodes with injury.  See electrophysiology consultation.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Normal electrophysiologic studies.,2.  No inducible arrhythmia.,3.  Procainamide infusion negative for Brugada syndrome.,PROCEDURES:,1.  Comprehensive electrophysiology studies with attempted arrhythmia induction.,2.  IV Procainamide infusion for Brugada syndrome.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:, The patient gave informed consent for comprehensive electrophysiologic studies.  She received small amounts of intravenous fentanyl and Versed for conscious sedation.  Then 1% lidocaine local anesthesia was used.  Three catheters were placed via the right femoral vein; 5-French catheters to the right ventricular apex and right atrial appendage; and a 6-French catheter to the His bundle.  Later in the procedure, the RV apical catheter was moved to RV outflow tract.,ELECTROPHYSIOLOGICAL FINDINGS:,  Conduction intervals in sinus rhythm were normal.  Sinus cycle length 768 ms, PA interval 24 ms, AH interval 150 ms, HV interval 46 ms.  Sinus node recovery times were also normal at 1114 ms.  Corrected sinus node recovery time was normal at 330 ms.  One-to-one AV conduction was present to cycle length 480 ms, AH interval 240 ms, HV interval 54 ms.  AV nodal effective refractory period was normal, 440 ms at drive cycle length 600 ms.  RA-ERP was 250 ms.  With ventricular pacing, there was VA disassociation present.,Since there was no evidence for dual AV nodal pathways, and poor retrograde conduction, isoproterenol infusion was not performed to look for SVT.,Programmed ventricular stimulation was performed at both right ventricular apex and right ventricular outflow tracts.  Drive cycle length 600, 500, and 400 ms was used with triple extrastimuli down to troubling intervals of 180 ms, or refractoriness.  There was no inducible VT.  Longest run was 5 beats of polymorphic VT, which is a nonspecific finding.  From the apex 400-600 with 2 extrastimuli were delivered, again with no inducible VT.,Procainamide was then infused, 20 mg/kg over 10 minutes.  There were no ST segment changes.  HV interval after IV Procainamide remained normal at 50 ms.,ASSESSMENT: , Normal electrophysiologic studies.  No evidence for sinus node dysfunction or atrioventricular block.  No inducible supraventricular tachycardia or ventricular tachycardia, and no evidence for Brugada syndrome.,PLAN: , The patient will follow up with Dr. X.  She recently had an ambulatory EEG.  I will plan to see her again on a p.r.n. basis should she develop a recurrent syncopal episodes.  Reveal event monitor was considered, but not placed since she has only had one single episode.
HISTORY:,  The patient is a 46-year-old right-handed gentleman with a past medical history of a left L5-S1 lumbar microdiskectomy in 1998 with complete resolution of left leg symptoms, who now presents with a four-month history of gradual onset of right-sided low back pain with pain radiating down into his buttock and posterior aspect of his right leg into the ankle.  Symptoms are worsened by any activity and relieved by rest.  He also feels that when the pain is very severe, he has some subtle right leg weakness.  No left leg symptoms.  No bowel or bladder changes.,On brief examination, full strength in both lower extremities.  No sensory abnormalities.  Deep tendon reflexes are 2+ and symmetric at the patellas and absent at both ankles.  Positive straight leg raising on the right.,MRI of the lumbosacral spine was personally reviewed and reveals a right paracentral disc at L5-S1 encroaching upon the right exiting S1 nerve root.,NERVE CONDUCTION STUDIES:,  Motor and sensory distal latencies, evoked response amplitudes, and conduction velocities are normal in the lower extremities.  The right common peroneal F-wave is minimally prolonged.  The right tibial H reflex is absent.,NEEDLE EMG:,  Needle EMG was performed on the right leg, left gastrocnemius medialis muscle, and right lumbosacral paraspinal muscles using a disposable concentric needle.  It revealed spontaneous activity in the right gastrocnemius medialis, gluteus maximus, and lower lumbosacral paraspinal muscles.  There was evidence of chronic denervation in right gastrocnemius medialis and gluteus maximus muscles.,IMPRESSION: , This electrical study is abnormal.  It reveals an acute right S1 radiculopathy.  There is no evidence for peripheral neuropathy or left or right L5 radiculopathy.,Results were discussed with the patient and he is scheduled to follow up with Dr. X in the near future.
INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: , A 79-year-old Filipino woman referred for colonoscopy secondary to heme-positive stools.  Procedure done to rule out generalized diverticular change, colitis, and neoplasia.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , The patient was explained the procedure in detail, possible complications including infection, perforation, adverse reaction of medication, and bleeding.  Informed consent was signed by the patient.,With the patient in left decubitus position, had received a cumulative dose of 4 mg of Versed and 75 mg of Demerol, using Olympus video colonoscope under direct visualization was advanced to the cecum.  Photodocumentation of appendiceal orifice and the ileocecal valve obtained.  Cecum was slightly obscured with stool but the colon itself was adequately prepped.  There was no evidence of overt colitis, telangiectasia, or overt neoplasia.  There was moderately severe diverticular change, which was present throughout the colon and photodocumented.  The rectal mucosa was normal and retroflexed with mild internal hemorrhoids.  The patient tolerated the procedure well without any complications.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Colonoscopy to the cecum with adequate preparation.,2.  Long tortuous spastic colon.,3.  Moderately severe diverticular changes present throughout.,4.  Mild internal hemorrhoids.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1.  Clear liquid diet today.,2.  Follow up with primary care physician as scheduled from time to time.,3.  Increase fiber in diet, strongly consider fiber supplementation.
OPERATION:,
EXAM: , Single frontal view of the chest.,HISTORY: , Atelectasis.  Patient is status-post surgical correction for ASD.,TECHNIQUE: , A single frontal view of the chest was evaluated and correlated with the prior film dated mm/dd/yy.,FINDINGS:,  Current film reveals there is a right-sided central venous catheter, the distal tip appears to be in the superior vena cava.  Endotracheal tube with the distal tip appears to be in appropriate position, approximately 2 cm superior to the carina.  Sternotomy wires are noted.  They appear in appropriate placement.  There are no focal areas of consolidation to suggest pneumonia.  Once again seen is minimal amount of bilateral basilar atelectasis.  The cardiomediastinal silhouette appears to be within normal limits at this time.  No evidence of any pneumothoraces or pleural effusions.,IMPRESSION:,1.  There has been interval placement of a right-sided central venous catheter, endotracheal tube, and sternotomy wires secondary to patient's most recent surgical intervention.,2.  Minimal bilateral basilar atelectasis with no significant interval changes from the patient's most recent prior.,3.  Interval decrease in the patient's heart size which may be secondary to the surgery versus positional and technique.
REASON FOR VISIT: , Ms. ABC is a 67-year-old woman with adult hydrocephalus who returns to clinic for a routine evaluation.  She comes to clinic by herself.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  She has been followed for her hydrocephalus since 2002.  She also had an anterior cervical corpectomy and fusion from C3 though C5 in March 2007.  She was last seen by us in clinic in March 2008 and she was experiencing little bit of head fullness and ringing in the ears at that time; however, we decided to leave her shunt setting at 1.0.  We wanted her to followup with Dr. XYZ regarding the MRI of the cervical spine.  Today, she tells me that with respect to her bladder last week she had some episodes of urinary frequency, however, this week she is not experiencing the same type of episodes.  She reports no urgency, incontinence, and feels that she completely empties her bladder when she goes.  She does experience some leakage with coughing.  She wears the pad on a daily basis.  She does not think that her bladder has changed much since we saw her last.  With respect to her thinking and memory, she reports no problems at this time.  She reports no headaches at this time.  With respect to her walking and balance, she says that it feels worse.  In the beginning of May, she had a coughing spell and at that time she developed buttock pain, which travels down the legs.  She states that her leg often feel like elastic and she experiences a tingling radiculopathy.  She says that this tingling is constant and at times painful.  She feels that she is walking slower for this reason.  She does not use the cane at this time.  Most of the time, she is able to walk over uneven surfaces.  She is able to walk up and down stairs and has no trouble getting in and out of a car.,MEDICATIONS:,  Rhinocort 32 mg two sprays a day, Singulair 10 mg once a day, Xyzal 5 mg in the morning, Spiriva once a day, Advair twice a day, Prevacid 30 mg twice a day, Os-Cal 500 mg once a day, multivitamin once a day, and aspirin 81 mg a day.,MAJOR FINDINGS:,  On exam today, this is a pleasant 67-year-old woman who comes back from the clinic waiting area with little difficulty.  She is well developed, well nourished, and kempt.,The shunt site is clean, dry, and intact and confirmed at a setting of 1.0.,Mental Status:  Assessed and appears intact for orientation, recent and remote memory, attention span, concentration, language, and fund of knowledge.  Her Mini-Mental Status exam score was 26/30 when attention was tested with calculations and 30/30 when attention was tested with spelling.,Cranial Nerves:  Extraocular movements are somewhat inhibited.  She does not display any nystagmus at this time.  Facial movement, hearing, head turning, tongue, and palate movement are all intact.,Gait:  Assessed using the Tinetti assessment tool, which showed a balance score of 13/16 and a gait score of 11/12 for a total score of 24/28.,ASSESSMENT:,  Ms. ABC has been experiencing difficulty with walking over the past several months.,PROBLEMS/DIAGNOSES:,1.  Hydrocephalus.,2.  Cervical stenosis and retrolisthesis.,3.  Neuropathy in the legs.,PLAN: , Before we recommend anything more, we would like to get a hold of the notes from Dr. XYZ to try to come up with a concrete plan as to what we can do next for Ms. ABC.  We believe that her walking is most likely not being effected by the hydrocephalus.  We would like to see her back in clinic in two and a half months or so.  We also talked to her about having her obtain cane training so that she knows how to properly use her cane, which she states she does have one.  I suggested that she use the cane at her on discretion.
SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient states that he feels sick and weak.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  Highest temperature recorded over the past 24 hours was 101.1, and current temperature is 99.2.,GENERAL:  The patient looks tired.,HEENT:  Oral mucosa is dry.,CHEST:  Clear to auscultation.  He states that he has a mild cough, not productive.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  First and second heart sounds were heard.  No murmur was appreciated.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.  Bowel sounds are positive. Murphy's sign is negative.,EXTREMITIES:  There is no swelling.,NEURO:  The patient is alert and oriented x 3.  Examination is nonfocal.,LABORATORY DATA: , White count is normal at 6.8, hemoglobin is 15.8, and platelets 257,000.  Glucose is in the low 100s.  Comprehensive metabolic panel is unremarkable.  UA is negative for infection.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Fever of undetermined origin, probably viral since white count is normal.  Would continue current antibiotics empirically.,2.  Dehydration.  Hydrate the patient.,3.  Prostatic hypertrophy.  Urologist, Dr. X.,4.  DVT prophylaxis with subcutaneous heparin.
TITLE OF OPERATION: , Phacoemulsification with posterior chamber intraocular lens implant in the right eye.,INDICATION FOR SURGERY: , The patient is a 27-year-old male who sustained an open globe injury as a child.  He subsequently developed a retinal detachment in 2005 and now has silicone oil in the anterior chamber of the right eye as well as a dense cataract.  He is undergoing silicone oil removal as well as concurrent cataract extraction with lens implant in the right eye.,PREOP DIAGNOSIS:,1.  History of open globe to the right eye.,2.  History of retinal detachment status post repair in the right eye.,3.  Silicone oil in anterior chamber.,4.  Dense silicone oil cataract in the right eye obscuring the view of the posterior pole.,POSTOP DIAGNOSIS:,1.  History of open globe to the right eye.,2.  History of retinal detachment status post repair in the right eye.,3.  Silicone oil in anterior chamber.,4.  Dense silicone oil cataract in the right eye obscuring the view of the posterior pole.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,PROS DEV IMPLANT: , ABC Laboratories posterior chamber intraocular lens, 21.0 diopters, serial number 123456.,NARRATIVE: , Informed consent was obtained.  All questions were answered.  The patient was brought to preoperative holding area where the operative right eye was marked.  He was brought to the operating room and placed in the supine position.  EKG leads were placed.  General anesthesia was induced by the anesthesia service.  A time-out was called to confirm the procedure and operative eye.  The right operative eye was disinfected and draped in a standard fashion for eye surgery.  A lid speculum was placed.  The vitreoretinal team placed the infusion cannula after performing a peritomy.  At this point in the case, the patient was turned over to the cornea service with Mrs. Jun.  A paracentesis was made at the approximately 3 o'clock position.  Healon was placed into the anterior chamber.  The diamond keratome was used to make a vertical groove incision just inside the limbus at the 108-degree axis.  This incision was then shelved anteriorly and used to enter the anterior chamber.  The Utrata forceps were used to complete a continuous circular capsulorrhexis after incision of the capsule with the cystotome.  Hydrodissection was performed.  The lens nucleus was removed using phacoemulsification and irrigation and aspiration.  Lens cortex also was removed using irrigation and aspiration.  Viscoelastic was placed to inflate the capsular remnant.  The diamond knife was used to enlarge the phaco incision.  Intraocular lens was selected from preoperative calculations, placed in the injector system, and inserted into the capsule without difficulty.  The trailing haptic was placed using the Sheets forceps and the Barraquer sweep to push the IOL optic posteriorly as the trailing haptic was placed.  The anterior cornea wound was sutured along with the paracentesis after irrigation and aspiration was performed to remove remaining viscoelastic from the anterior chamber.  This was done without difficulty.  The anterior chamber was secured and watertight at the end of the procedure.  Intraocular pressure was satisfactory.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and then was turned over to the retina service in good condition.  They will dictate a separate note.
REASON FOR REFERRAL:,  Chest pain, possible syncopal spells.,She is a very pleasant 31-year-old mother of two children with ADD.,She was doing okay until January of 2009 when she had a partial hysterectomy.  Since then she just says "things have changed".  She just does not want to go out anymore and just does not feel the same.  Also, at the same time, she is having a lot of household stressors with both of her children having ADD and ODD and she feels she does not get enough support from her husband.  Her 11-year-old is having a lot of trouble at school and she often has to go there to take care of problems.,In this setting, she has been having multiple cardiovascular complaints including chest pains, which feel "like cramps" and sometimes like a dull ache, which will last all day long.  She is also tender in the left breast area and gets numbness in her left hand.  She has also had three spells of "falling", she is not really clear on whether these are syncopal, but they sound like they could be as she sees spots before her eyes.  Twice it happened, when getting up quickly at night and another time in the grocery store.  She suffered no trauma.  She has no remote history of syncope.  Her weight has not changed in the past year.,MEDICATIONS: , Naprosyn, which she takes up to six a day.,ALLERGIES:,  Sulfa.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , She does not smoke or drink.  She is married with two children.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Otherwise unremarkable.,PEX:,  BP:  130/70 without orthostatic changes.  PR:  72.  WT:  206 pounds.  She is a healthy young woman.  No JVD.  No carotid bruit.  No thyromegaly.  Cardiac:  Regular rate and rhythm.  There is no significant murmur, gallop, or rub.  Chest:  Mildly tender in the upper pectoral areas bilaterally (breast exam was not performed).  Lungs:  Clear.  Abdomen:  Soft.  Moderately overweight.  Extremities:  No edema and good distal pulses.,EKG: , Normal sinus rhythm, normal EKG.,ECHOCARDIOGRAM (FOR SYNCOPE): , Essentially normal study.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Syncopal spells - These do sound, in fact, to be syncopal.  I suspect it is simple orthostasis/vasovagal, as her EKG and echocardiogram looks good.  I have asked her to drink plenty of fluids and to not to get up suddenly at night.  I think this should take care of the problem.  I would not recommend further workup unless these spells continue, at which time I would recommend a tilt-table study.,2.  Chest pains - Atypical for cardiac etiology, undoubtedly due to musculoskeletal factors from her emotional stressors.  The Naprosyn is not helping that much, I gave her a prescription for Flexeril and instructed her in its use (not to drive after taking it).,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1.  Reassurance that her cardiac checkup looks excellent, which it does.,2.  Drink plenty of fluids and arise slowly from bed.,3.  Flexeril 10 mg q 6 p.r.n.,4.  I have asked her to return should the syncopal spells continue.
REASON FOR THE CONSULT:,  Nonhealing right ankle stasis ulcer.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , This is a 52-year-old native American-Indian man with hypertension, chronic intermittent bipedal edema, and recurrent leg venous ulcers, who was admitted on 01/27/09 for scheduled vascular surgery per Dr. X. I was consulted for nonhealing right ankle stasis ulcer.  There is a concern that the patient had a low-grade fever of 100.2 early this morning.  The patient otherwise feels well.  He was not even aware of the fever.  He does have some ankle pain, worse on the right than the left.  Old medical records were reviewed.  He has multiple hospitalizations for leg cellulitis.  Multiple wound cultures have repeatedly grown Pseudomonas, Enterococcus, and Stenotrophomonas in the past.  Klebsiella and Enterobacter have also grown in the few wound cultures at some point.  The patient has been following up at the wound center as an outpatient and was referred to Dr. X for definitive surgical management.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,CONSTITUTIONAL:  No malaise.  Positive recent low-grade fevers.  No chills.,HEENT:  No acute change in visual acuity, no diplopia, no acute hearing disturbances, and no sinus congestion.  No sore throat.,CARDIAC:  No chest pain or cough.,GASTROINTESTINAL:  No nausea, vomiting or diarrhea.,All other systems were reviewed and were negative.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  ,Hypertension, exploratory laparotomy in 2004 for abdominal obstruction, cholecystectomy in 2005, chronic intermittent bipedal edema, venous insufficiency, chronic recurrent stasis ulcers.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , The patient admits to heavy alcohol drinking in the past, quit several years ago.  He is also a former cigarette smoker, quit several years ago.,ALLERGIES:,  None known.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Primaxin, daptomycin, clonidine, furosemide, potassium chloride, lisinopril, metoprolol, ranitidine, Colace, amlodipine, zinc sulfate, Lortab p.r.n., multivitamins with minerals.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,CONSTITUTIONAL/VITAL SIGNS:  Heart rate 73, respiratory rate 20, blood pressure 104/67, temperature 98.3, and oxygen saturation 92% on room air.,GENERAL APPEARANCE:  The patient is awake, alert, and not in cardiorespiratory distress.  Height 6 feet 1.5 inches, body weight 125.26 kilos.,EYES:  Pink conjunctivae, anicteric sclerae.  Pupils equal, brisk reaction to light.,EARS, NOSE, MOUTH AND THROAT:  Intact gross hearing.  Moist oral mucosa.  No oral lesions.,NECK:  No palpable neck masses.  Thyroid is not enlarged on inspection.,RESPIRATORY:  Regular inspiratory effort.  No crackles or wheezes.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular cardiac rhythm.  No thrills or rubs.,GASTROINTESTINAL:  Normoactive bowel sounds.  Soft.  No guarding or rigidity.,LYMPHATIC:  No cervical lymphadenopathy.,MUSCULOSKELETAL:  Good range of motion of upper and lower extremities.,SKIN:  There is hyperpigmentation involving the distal calf of both legs.  There is an open wound on the right medial,malleolar area measuring 9 x 5cm with minimal serous drainage.  Periwound is hyperpigmented with a hint of erythema extending proximally to the medial aspect, distal third of the right lower leg.  There is warmth, but minimal tenderness on palpation of this area.  There is also a wound on the right lateral malleolar area measuring 4 x 3 cm, another open wound on the left medial malleolar area measuring 7 x 4 cm.  Wound edges are poorly defined.,PSYCHIATRIC:  Appropriate mood and affect, oriented x3.  Fair judgment and insight.,LABORATORY RESULTS: , White blood cell count from 01/28/09 is 5.8 with 64% neutrophils, H&H 11.3/33.8, and platelet count 176,000.  BUN and creatinine 9.2/0.52.  Albumin 3.6, AST 25, ALT 9, alk phos 87, and total bilirubin 0.6.  One wound culture from right leg wound culture from 01/27/09 noted with young growth.  Left leg wound culture from 01/27/09 also with young growth.,RADIOLOGY:,  Chest x-ray done on 01/28/09 showed chronic bibasilar subsegmental atelectasis likely related to elevated hemidiaphragm secondary to chronic ileus.  No absolute findings.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Fevers.,2.  Right leg/ankle cellulitis.,3.  Chronic recurrent bilateral ankle venous ulcers.,4.  Multiple previous wound cultures positive for Pseudomonas, Enterococcus, and Stenotrophomonas.,5.  Hypertension.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1.  We have ordered 2 sets of blood cultures.,2.  Agree with daptomycin and Primaxin IV.,3.  Follow up result of wound cultures.,4.  I will order an MRI of the right ankle to check for underlying osteomyelitis.,Additional ID recommendations as appropriate upon followup.
PROCEDURES: , Left heart catheterization, left ventriculography, and left and right coronary arteriography.,INDICATIONS: , Chest pain and non-Q-wave MI with elevation of troponin I only.,TECHNIQUE:  ,The patient was brought to the procedure room in satisfactory condition.  The right groin was prepped and draped in routine fashion.  An arterial sheath was inserted into the right femoral artery.,Left and right coronary arteries were studied with a 6FL4 and 6FR4 Judkins catheters respectively.  Cine coronary angiograms were done in multiple views.,Left heart catheterization was done using the 6-French pigtail catheter.  Appropriate pressures were obtained before and after the left ventriculogram, which was done in the RAO view.,At the end of the procedure, the femoral catheter was removed and Angio-Seal was applied without any complications.,FINDINGS:,1.  LV is normal in size and shape with good contractility, EF of 60%.,2.  LMCA normal.,3.  LAD has 20% to 30% stenosis at the origin.,4.  LCX is normal.,5.  RCA is dominant and normal.,RECOMMENDATIONS: , Medical management, diet, and exercise.  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily, p.r.n. nitroglycerin for chest pain.  Follow up in the clinic.
TITLE OF OPERATION:,  Bilateral endoscopic proximal shunt revision and a distal shunt revision.,INDICATIONS FOR OPERATION:,  Headaches, full subtemporal site.,PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Slit ventricle syndrome.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Slit ventricle syndrome.,FINDINGS:,  Coaptation of ventricles against proximal end of ventricular catheter.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal tube anesthesia.,DEVICES: , A Codman Hakim programmable valve with Portnoy ventricular catheter, a 0/20 proGAV valve with a shunt assist of 20 cm dual right-angled connector, and a flushing reservoir.,BRIEF NARRATIVE OF OPERATIVE PROCEDURE:,  After satisfactory general endotracheal tube anesthesia was administered, the patient was positioned on the operating table in the prone position with the head held on a soft foam padding.  The occipital area was shaven bilaterally and then the areas of the prior scalp incisions were infiltrated with 0.25% Marcaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine after routine prepping and draping.  Both U-shaped scalp incisions were opened exposing both the left and the right ventricular catheters as well as the old low pressure reservoir, which might have been leading to the coaptation of the ventricles.  The patient also had a right subtemporal depression, which was full preoperatively.  The entire old apparatus was dissected out.  We then cut both the ventricular catheters and secured them with sutures so that __________ could be inserted.  They were both inspected.  No definite debris were seen.  After removing the ventricular catheters, the old tracts were inspected and we could see where there was coaptation of the ventricles against the ventricular catheter.  On the right side, we elected to insert the Portnoy ventricular catheter and on the left a new Bactiseal catheter was inserted underneath the corpus callosum in a different location.  The old valve was dissected out and the proGAV valve with a 2-0 shunt assist was inserted and secured with a 2-0 Ethibond suture.  The proGAV valve was then connected to a Bactiseal distal tubing, which was looped in a cephalad way and then curved towards the left burr hole site and then the Portnoy catheter on the right was secured with a right-angled sleeve and then interposed between it and the left burr hole site with a flushing reservoir.  All connections secured with 2-0 Ethibond suture and a small piece of Bactiseal tubing between the flushing reservoir and the connector, which secured the left Bactiseal tubing to the two other Bactiseal tubings one being the distal Bactiseal tubing going towards the proGAV valve, which was set to an opening pressure of 8 and the other one being the Bactiseal tubing, which was going towards the flushing reservoir.,All the wounds were irrigated out with bacitracin and then closed in a routine manner using Vicryl for the deep layers and Monocryl for the skin, followed by Mastisol and Steri-Strips.  The patient tolerated the procedure well without complications.  CSF was not sent off.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  The patient is a 17-year-old female, who presents to the emergency room with foreign body and airway compromise and was taken to the operating room.  She was intubated and fishbone.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Significant for diabetes, hypertension, asthma, cholecystectomy, and total hysterectomy and cataract.,ALLERGIES:  ,No known drug allergies.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS: , Prevacid, Humulin, Diprivan, Proventil, Unasyn, and Solu-Medrol.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Noncontributory.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , Negative for illicit drugs, alcohol, and tobacco.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  ,Please see the hospital chart.,LABORATORY DATA: , Please see the hospital chart.,HOSPITAL COURSE: , The patient was taken to the operating room by Dr. X who is covering for ENT and noted that she had airway compromise and a rather large fishbone noted and that was removed.  The patient was intubated and it was felt that she should be observed to see if the airway would improve upon which she could be extubated.  If not she would require tracheostomy.  The patient was treated with IV antibiotics and ventilatory support and at the time of this dictation, she has recently been taken to the operating room where it was felt that the airway sufficient and she was extubated.  She was doing well with good p.o.s, good airway, good voice, and desiring to be discharged home.  So, the patient is being prepared for discharge at this point.  We will have Dr. X evaluate her before she leaves to make sure I do not have any problem with her going home.  Dr. Y feels she could be discharged today and will have her return to see him in a week.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Cleft soft palate.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Cleft soft palate.,PROCEDURES:,1.  Repair of cleft soft palate, CPT 42200.,2.  Excise accessory ear tag, right ear.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , The patient was placed supine on the operating room table.  After anesthesia was administered, time out was taken to ensure correct patient, procedure, and site.  The face was prepped and draped in a sterile fashion.  The right ear tag was examined first.  This was a small piece of skin and cartilaginous material protruding just from the tragus.  The lesion was excised and injected with 0.25% bupivacaine with epinephrine and then excised using an elliptical-style incision.  Dissection was carried down the subcutaneous tissue to remove any cartilaginous attachment to the tragus.  After this was done, the wound was cauterized and then closed using interrupted 5-0 Monocryl.  Attention was then turned towards the palate.  The Dingman mouthgag was inserted and the palate was injected with 0.25% bupivacaine with epinephrine.  After giving this 5 minutes to take effect, the palate was incised along its margins.  The anterior oral mucosa was lifted off and held demonstrating the underlying levator muscle.  Muscle was freed up from its attachments at the junction of the hard palate and swept down so that it will be approximated across the midline.  The Z-plasties were then designed, so there would be opposing Z-plasties from the nasal mucosa compared to the oral mucosa.  The nasal mucosa was sutured first using interrupted 4-0 Vicryl.  Next, the muscle was reapproximated using interrupted 4-0 Vicryl with an attempt to overlap the muscle in the midline.  In addition, the remnant of the uvula tissue was found and was sutured in such a place that it would add some extra bulk to the nasal surface of the palate.  Following this, the oral layer of mucosa was repaired using an opposing Z-plasty compared to the nasal layer.  This was also sutured in place using interrupted 4-0 Vicryl.  The anterior and posterior open edges of the palatal were sewn together.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  Suction of blood and mucus performed at the end of the case.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.,IMMEDIATE COMPLICATIONS: , None.,DISPOSITION:,  In satisfactory condition to recovery.
S:,  ABC is in today for a followup of her atrial fibrillation.  They have misplaced the Cardizem.  She is not on this and her heart rate is up just a little bit today.  She does complain of feeling dizziness, some vertigo, some lightheadedness, and has attributed this to the Coumadin therapy.  She is very adamant that she wants to stop the Coumadin.  She is tired of blood draws.  We have had a difficult time getting her regulated.  No chest pains.  No shortness of breath.  She is moving around a little bit better.  Her arm does not hurt her.  Her back pain is improving as well.,O:,  Vital signs as per chart.  Respirations 15.  Exam:  Nontoxic.  No acute distress.  Alert and oriented.  HEENT:  TMs are clear bilaterally without erythema or bulging.  Clear external canals.  Clear tympanic.  Conjunctivae are clear.  Clear nasal mucosa.  Clear oropharynx with moist mucous membranes.  NECK is soft and supple.  LUNGS are clear to auscultation.  HEART is irregularly irregular, mildly tachycardic.  ABDOMEN is soft and nontender.  EXTREMITIES:  No cyanosis, no clubbing, no edema.,EKG shows atrial fibrillation with a heart rate of 104.,A:,1.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Recurrent vulvar melanoma.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Recurrent vulvar melanoma.,OPERATION PERFORMED: , Radical anterior hemivulvectomy.  Posterior skinning vulvectomy.,SPECIMENS: , Radical anterior hemivulvectomy, posterior skinning vulvectomy.,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: , The patient has a history of vulvar melanoma first diagnosed in November of 1995.  She had a surgical resection at that time and recently noted recurrence of an irritated nodule around the clitoris.  Biopsy obtained by The patient confirmed recurrence.  In addition, biopsies on the posterior labia (left side) demonstrated melanoma in situ.,FINDINGS: , During the examination under anesthesia, the biopsy sites were visible and a slightly pigmented irregular area of epithelium was seen near the clitoris.  No other obvious lesions were seen.  The room was darkened and a Woods lamp was used to inspect the epithelium.  A marking pen was used to outline all pigmented areas, which included several patches on both the right and left labia.,PROCEDURE: , The patient was prepped and draped and a scalpel was used to incise the skin on the anterior portion of the specimen.  The radical anterior hemivulvectomy was designed so that a 1.5-2.0 cm margin would be obtained and the depth was carried to the fascia of the urogenital diaphragm.  Subcutaneous adipose was divided with electrocautery and the specimen was mobilized from the periosteum.  After removal of the radical anterior portion, the skin on the posterior labia and perineal body was mobilized.  Skin was incised with a scalpel and electrocautery was used to undermine.  After removal of the specimen, the wounds were closed primarily with subcutaneous interrupted stitches of 3-0 Vicryl suture.  The final sponge, needle, and instrument counts were correct at the completion of the procedure.  The patient was then taken to the Post Anesthesia Care Unit in stable condition.
COMPARISON:, None.,MEDICATIONS:, Lopressor 5mg IV at 0920 hours.,HEART RATE: ,Recorded heart rate 55 to 57bpm.,EXAM:,Initial unenhanced axial CT imaging of the heart was obtained with ECG gating for the purpose of coronary artery calcium scoring (Agatston Method) and calcium volume determination.,18 gauge IV Intracath was inserted into the right antecubital vein.,A 20cc saline bolus was injected intravenously to confirm vein patency and adequacy of venous access.,Multi-detector CT imaging was performed with a 64 slice MDCT scanner with images obtained from the mid ascending aorta to the diaphragm at 0.5mm slice thickness during breath-holding.,95 cc of Isovue was administered followed by a 90cc saline â€œbolus chaserâ€. Image reconstruction was performed using retrospective cardiac gating. Calcium scoring analysis (Agatston Method and volume determination) was performed.,FINDINGS:,CALCIUM SCORE:  The patient's total Agatston calcium score is: 115. The Agatston score for the individual vessels are: LM: 49. RCA: 1. LAD: 2. CX: 2. Other: 62. The Agatston calcium score places the patient in the 90th percentile, which means 10 percent of the male population in this age group would have a higher calcium score.,QUALITY ASSESSMENT:,  Examination is of good quality with good bolus timing and good demonstration of coronary arteries.,LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY:,  The left main coronary artery has a posteriorly positioned take-off from the valve cusp, with a patent ostium, and it has an extramural (non-malignant) course. The vessel is of moderate size. There is an apparent second ostium, in a more normal anatomic location, but quite small. This has an extramural (non-malignant) course. There is mixed calcific/atheromatous plaque within the distal vessel, as well as positive remodeling. There is no high grade stenosis but a flow-limiting lesion can not be excluded. The vessel trifurcates into a left anterior descending artery, a ramus intermedius and a left circumflex artery.,LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING CORONARY ARTERY:,  The left anterior descending artery is a moderate-size vessel, with ostial calcific plaque and soft plaque without a high-grade stenosis, but there may be a flow-limiting lesion here. There is a moderate size bifurcating first diagonal branch with ostial calcification, but no flow-limiting lesion. LAD continues as a moderate-size vessel to the posterior apex of the left ventricle.,Ramus intermedius branch is a moderate to large-size vessel with extensive calcific plaque, but no ostial stenosis. The dense calcific plaque limits evaluation of the vessel lumen, and a flow-limiting lesion within the proximal vessel cannot be excluded. The vessel continues as a small vessel on the left lateral ventricular wall.,LEFT CIRCUMFLEX CORONARY ARTERY:, The left circumflex artery is a moderate-size vessel with a normal ostium giving rise to a small OM1 branch and a large OM2 branch supplying much of the posterolateral wall of the left ventricular. The AV-groove branch tapers at the base of the heart. There is minimal calcific plaque within the mid vessel, but there is no flow-limiting stenosis.,RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY:, The right coronary artery is a large vessel with a normal ostium giving rise to a moderate-size acute marginal branch and continuing as a large vessel to the crux of the heart supplying a left posterior descending artery and small posterolateral ventricular branches. There is minimal calcific plaque within the mid vessel, but there is no flow-limiting lesion.,Coronary circulation is right dominant.,FUNCTIONAL ANALYSIS:, End diastolic volume: 106ml End systolic volume: 44ml Ejection fraction: 58 percent,ANATOMIC ANALYSIS:,Normal heart size with no demonstrated ventricular wall abnormalities. There are no demonstrated myocardial,bridges. Normal left atrial appendage with no evidence of thrombosis.,Cardiac valves are normal.,The aortic diameter measures 33mm just distal to the sino-tubular junction. The visualized thoracic aorta appears normal in size.,Normal pericardium without pericardial thickening or effusion.,There is no demonstrated mediastinal or hilar adenopathy. The visualized lung parenchyma is unremarkable.,There are two left and two right pulmonary veins.,IMPRESSION:,Ventricular function: Normal.,Single vessel coronary artery analysis:,LM: There is a posterior origin from the valve cusp. There is mixed calcific/atheromatous plaque and positive remodeling plaque within the LM, and although there is no high grade stenosis, a flow-limiting lesion can not be excluded. In addition, there is an apparent second ostium of indeterminate significance, but both ostia have extramural (non-malignant) courses.,LAD: Dense calcific plaque within the proximal vessel with ostial calcification and possible flow-limiting proximal lesion. There is a ramus branch with dense calcific plaque limiting evaluation of the vessel lumen, but a flow-limiting lesion cannot be excluded here.,CX: Minimal calcific plaque with no flow-limiting lesion.,RCA: Minimal calcific plaque with no flow-limiting lesion.,Coronary artery dominance: Right.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Femoroacetabular impingement.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Femoroacetabular impingement.,OPERATIONS PERFORMED,1.  Left hip arthroscopic debridement.,2.  Left hip arthroscopic femoral neck osteoplasty.,3.  Left hip arthroscopic labral repair.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,OPERATION IN DETAIL: , The patient was taken to the operating room, where he underwent general anesthetic.  His bilateral lower extremities were placed under traction on the Hana table.  His right leg was placed first.  The traction post was left line, and the left leg was placed in traction.  Sterile Hibiclens and alcohol prep and drape were then undertaken.  A fluoroscopic localization was undertaken.  Gentle traction was applied.  Narrow arthrographic effect was obtained.  Following this, the ProTrac portal was made under the fluoro visualization, and then, a direct anterolateral portal made and a femoral neck portal made under direct visualization.  The diagnostic arthroscopy showed the articular surface to be intact with a moderate anterior lip articular cartilage delamination injury that propagated into the acetabulum.  For this reason, the acetabular articular cartilage was taken down and stabilized.  This necessitated takedown of the anterior lip of the acetabulum and subsequent acetabular osteoplasty debridement with associated labral repair.  The labrum was repaired using absorbable Smith & Nephew anchors with a sliding SMC knot.  After stabilization of the labrum and the acetabulum, the ligamentum teres was assessed and noted to be stable.  The remnant articular surface of the femoral artery and acetabulum was stable.  The posterior leg was stable.  The traction was left half off, and the anterolateral aspect of the head and neck junction was identified.  A stable femoral neck decompression was accomplished starting laterally and proceeding anteriorly.  This terminated with the hip coming out of traction and indeterminable flexion.  A combination of burs and shavers was utilized to perform a stable femoral neck osteoplasty decompression.  The decompression was completed with thorough irrigation of the hip.  The cannula was removed, and the portals were closed using interrupted nylon.  The patient was placed into a sterile bandage and anesthetized intraarticularly with 10 mL of ropivacaine subcutaneously with 20 mL of ropivacaine and at this point was taken to the recovery room.  He tolerated the procedure very well with no signs of complications.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Colovesical fistula.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Colovesical fistula.,2.  Intraperitoneal abscess.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Exploratory laparotomy.,2.  Low anterior colon resection.,3.  Flexible colonoscopy.,4.  Transverse loop colostomy and JP placement.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,HISTORY:  ,This 74-year-old female who had a recent hip fracture and the patient was in rehab when she started having some stool coming out of the urethra.  The patient had retrograde cystogram, which revealed colovesical fistula.  Recommendation for a surgery was made.  The patient was explained the risks and benefits as well as the two sons and the daughter.  They understood that the patient can even die from this procedure.  All the three procedures were explained, without a colostomy, with Hartmann's colostomy, and with a transverse loop colostomy, and out of the three procedures, the patient's requested to have the loop colostomy and stated that the Hartmann's colostomy leaving the anastomosis with the risk of leaking.,PROCEDURE DETAILS: , The patient was taken to the operating room, prepped and draped in the sterile fashion and was given general anesthetic.  An incision was performed in the midline below the umbilicus to the pubis with a #10 blade Bard Parker.  Electrocautery was used for hemostasis down to the fascia.  The fascia was grasped with Ochsner's and then immediately the peritoneum was entered and the incision was carried cephalad and caudad with electrocautery.,Once within the peritoneum, adhesiolysis was performed to separate the small bowel from the attachment of the anterior abdominal wall.  At this point, immediately a small bowel was retracted cephalad.  The patient was taken to a slightly Trendelenburg position and the descending colon was seen.  The white line of Toldt was opened all the way down to the area of inflammation.  At this point, meticulous dissection was carried to separate the small bowel from the attachment to the abscess.  When the small bowel was completely freed of  abscess, bulk of the bladder was seen anteriorly to the uterus.  The abscess was cultured and sent it back to Bacteriology Department and immediately the opening into the bladder was visualized.  At this point, the entire sigmoid colon was separated posteriorly as well as laterally and it was all the way down to sigmoid down to the rectum.  At this point, decision to place a moist towel and retract old intestine superiorly as well as to place first self-retaining retractor in the abdominal cavity with a bladder blade was placed.  Immediately, a GIA was fired right across the descending colon and sigmoid colon junction and then with peons within the mesentery were placed all the way down to the rectosigmoid junction where a TA-55 balloon Roticulator was fired.  The specimen was cut with #10 blade Bard-Parker and sent it to Pathology.  Immediately copious amount of irrigation was used and the staple line in the descending colon was brought with Allis.  A pursestring device was fired.  The staple line was cut.  The dilators were used using #25 and #29, then _________ #29 EEA was placed and the suture was tied.  At this point, attention was directed down to the rectal stump where dilators #25 and #29 were passed from the anus into the rectum and then the #29 Ethicon GIA was introduced.  The spike came posteriorly through the staple line to avoid the inflammatory process anteriorly that was present in the area of the cul-de-sac as well as the uterine was present in this patient.  ,Immediately, the EEA was connected with a mushroom.  It was tied, fired, and a Doyen was placed above the anastomosis approximately four inches.  Fluid was placed within the _________ and immediately a colonoscope was introduced from the patient's anus insufflating air.  No air was seen evolving from the staple line.  All fluid was removed and pictures of the staple line were taken.  The scope was removed at this point.  The case was passed to Dr. X for repair of the vesicle fistula.  Dr. X did repair down the perforation of the bladder that was communicating with an abscess secondary to the perforated diverticulitis and the colon.  After this was performed, copious amount of irrigation was used again.  More lysis of adhesions were performed and decision to make a loop transverse colostomy was made to protect the anastomosis in a phase of a severe inflammatory process in the pelvis in the infected area.  The incision was performed in the right upper quadrant.,This incision was performed with cutting in the cautery, down into the fascia splitting the muscle and then the Penrose was passed under transverse colon, and was grasped on pulling the transverse colon at the level of the skin.  The wire was passed under the transverse colon.  It was left in place.  Moderate irrigation was used in the peritoneal cavity and in the right lower quadrant, a JP was placed in the pelvis posteriorly to the abscess cavity that was down on the pelvis.  At this point, immediately, yellow fluid was removed from the peritoneal cavity and the abdomen was closed with cephalad to caudad and caudad to cephalad with a loop PDS suture and then tied.  Electrocautery for hemostasis and the subcutaneous tissue.  Copious amount of irrigation was used.  The skin was approximated with staples.  At this point, immediately, the wound was covered with a moist towel and decision to mature the loop colostomy was made.  The colostomy was opened longitudinally and then matured with interrupted #3-0 Vicryl suture through the skin edge.  One it was completely matured, immediately the index finger was probed proximally and distally and both loops were completely opened.  As previously mentioned, the Penrose was removed and the Bard was secured with a #3-0 nylon suture.  The JP was secured with #3-0 nylon suture as well.  At this point, dressings were applied.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  The stent from the left ureter was removed and the Foley was left in place.  The patient did tolerate the procedure well and will be followed up during the hospitalization.
She is stable at this time and does not require any intervention at today's visit.  I have asked her to return in six months' for a followup dilated examination, but would be happy to see her sooner should you or she notice any changes in her vision.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Herniated nucleus pulposus C5-C6.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Herniated nucleus pulposus C5-C6.,PROCEDURE:,  Anterior cervical discectomy fusion C5-C6 followed by instrumentation C5-C6 with titanium dynamic plating system, Aesculap.  Operating microscope was used for both illumination and magnification.,FIRST ASSISTANT: , Nurse practitioner.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was placed in supine position.  The neck was prepped and draped in the usual fashion for anterior discectomy and fusion.  An incision was made midline to the anterior body of the sternocleidomastoid at C5-C6 level.  The skin, subcutaneous tissue, and platysma muscle was divided exposing the carotid sheath, which was retracted laterally.  Trachea and esophagus were retracted medially.  After placing the self-retaining retractors with the longus colli muscles having been dissected away from the vertebral bodies at C5 and C6 and confirming our position with intraoperative x-rays, we then proceeded with the discectomy.,We then cleaned out the disc at C5-C6 after incising the annulus fibrosis.  We cleaned out the disc with a combination of angled and straight pituitary rongeurs and curettes, and the next step was to clean out the disc space totally.  With this having been done, we then turned our attention with the operating microscope to the osteophytes.  We drilled off the vertebral osteophytes at C5-C6, as well as the uncovertebral osteophytes.  This was removed along with the posterior longitudinal ligament.  After we had done this, the dural sac was opposed very nicely and both C6 nerve roots were thoroughly decompressed.  The next step after the decompression of the thecal sac and both C6 nerve roots was the fusion.  We observed that there was a ____________ in the posterior longitudinal ligament.  There was a free fragment disc, which had broken through the posterior longitudinal ligament just to the right of midline.,The next step was to obtain the bone from the back bone, using cortical cancellous graft 10 mm in size after we had estimated the size.  That was secured into place with distraction being applied on the vertebral bodies using vertebral body distractor.,After we had tapped in the bone plug, we then removed the distraction and the bone plug was fitting nicely.,We then use the Aesculap cervical titanium instrumentation with the 16-mm screws.  After securing the C5-C6 disc with four screws and titanium plate, x-rays showed good alignment of the spine, good placement of the bone graft, and after x-rays showed excellent position of the bone graft and instrumentation, we then placed in a Jackson-Pratt drain in the prevertebral space brought out through a separate incision.  The wound was closed with 2-0 Vicryl for subcutaneous tissues and skin was closed with Steri-Strips.  Blood loss during the operation was less than 10 mL.  No complications of the surgery.  Needle count, sponge count, and cottonoid count were correct.,
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Right lower quadrant abdominal pain, rule out acute appendicitis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Acute suppurative appendicitis.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Diagnostic laparoscopy.,2.  Laparoscopic appendectomy.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal and injectable 1% lidocaine and 0.25% Marcaine.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Minimal.,SPECIMEN: , Appendix.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,BRIEF HISTORY: , This is a 37-year-old Caucasian female presented to ABCD General Hospital with progressively worsening suprapubic and right lower quadrant abdominal pain, which progressed throughout its course starting approximately 12 hours prior to presentation.  She admits to some nausea associated with it.  There have been no fevers, chills, and/or genitourinary symptoms.  The patient had right lower quadrant tenderness with rebound and percussion tenderness in the right lower quadrant.  She had a leukocytosis of 12.8.  She did undergo a CT of the abdomen and pelvis, which was non diagnostic for an acute appendicitis.  Given the severity of her abdominal examination and her persistence of her symptoms, we recommend the patient undergo diagnostic laparoscopy with probable need for laparoscopic appendectomy and possible open appendectomy.  The risks, benefits, complications of the procedure, she gave us informed consent to proceed.,OPERATIVE FINDINGS:  ,Exploration of the abdomen via laparoscopy revealed an appendix with suppurative fluid surrounding it, it was slightly enlarged.  The left ovary revealed some follicular cysts.  There was no evidence of adnexal masses and/or torsion of the fallopian tubes.  The uterus revealed no evidence of mass and/or fibroid tumors.  The remainder of the abdomen was unremarkable.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: , The patient was brought to the operative suite, placed in the supine position.  The abdomen was prepped and draped in the normal sterile fashion with Betadine solution.  The patient underwent general endotracheal anesthesia.  The patient also received a preoperative dose of Ancef 1 gram IV.  After adequate sedation was achieved, a #10 blade scalpel was used to make an infraumbilical transverse incision utilizing a Veress needle.  Veress needle was inserted into the abdomen and the abdomen was insufflated approximately 15 mmHg.  Once the abdomen was sufficiently insufflated, a 10 mm bladed trocar was inserted into the abdomen without difficulty.  A video laparoscope was inserted into the infraumbilical trocar site and the abdomen was explored.  Next, a 5 mm port was inserted in the midclavicular line of the right upper quadrant region.  This was inserted under direct visualization.  Finally, a suprapubic 12 mm portal was created.  This was performed with #10 blade scalpel to create a transverse incision.  A bladed trocar was inserted into the suprapubic region.  This was done again under direct visualization.  Maryland dissector was inserted into the suprapubic region and a window was created between the appendix and mesoappendix at the base of the cecum.  This was done while the 5 mm trocar was used to grasp the middle portion of the appendix and retracted anteriorly.  Utilizing a endovascular stapling device, the appendix was transected and doubly stapled with this device.  Next, the mesoappendix was doubly stapled and transected with the endovascular stapling device.  The staple line was visualized and there was no evidence of bleeding.  The abdomen was fully irrigated with copious amounts of normal saline.  The abdomen was then aspirated.  There was no evidence of bleeding.  All ports were removed under direct visualization.  No evidence of bleeding from the port sites.  The infraumbilical and suprapubic ports were then closed.  The fascias were then closed with #0-Vicryl suture on a UR6 needle.  Once the fascias were closed, all incisions were closed with #4-0 undyed Vicryl.  The areas were cleaned, Steri-Strips were placed across the wound.  Sterile dressing was applied.,The patient tolerated the procedure well.  She was extubated following the procedure, returned to Postanesthesia Care Unit in stable condition.  She will be admitted to General Medical Floor and she will be followed closely in the early postoperative course.
OCULAR FINDINGS: , Anterior chamber space:  Cornea, iris, lens, and pupils all unremarkable on gross examination in each eye.,Ocular adnexal spaces appear very good in each eye.,Cyclomydril x2 was used to dilate the pupil in each eye.,Medial spaces are clear and the periphery is still hazy in each eye.,Ocular disc space, normal size and shape with a pink color with clear margin in each eye.,Macular spaces are normal in appearance for the age in each eye.,Posterior pole.  No dilated blood vessels seen in each eye.,Periphery:  The peripheral retina is still hazy and retinopathy of prematurity cannot be ruled out at this time in each eye.,IMPRESSION:  ,Premature retina and vitreous, each eye.,PLAN:  ,Recheck in two weeks.,
CHIEF COMPLAINT:, Right-sided weakness.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:, The patient was doing well until this morning when she was noted to have right-sided arm weakness with speech difficulties. She was subsequently sent to ABC Medical Center for evaluation and treatment. At ABC, the patient was seen by Dr. H including labs and a head CT which is currently pending. The patient has continued to have right-sided arm and hand weakness, and has difficulty expressing herself. She does seem to comprehend words. The daughter states the patient is in the Life Care Center, and she believes this started this morning. The patient denies headache, visual changes, chest pain and shortness of breath. These changes have been constant since onset this morning, have not improved or worsened, and the patient notes no modifying factors.,ALLERGIES:, NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.,MEDICATIONS:, Medications are taken from the paperwork from Life Care Center and include: Lortab 3-4 times a day for pain, Ativan 0.25 mg by mouth every 12 hours p.r.n. pain, Depakote ER 250 mg p.o. q nightly, Actos 15 mg p.o. t.i.d., Lantus 35 units subcu q nightly, Glipizide 10 mg p.o. q day, Lanoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q day, Lasix 40 mg p.o. q day, Lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d., insulin sliding scale, Lunesta 1 mg p.o. q nightly, Sorbitol 15 mg p.o. q day, Zoloft 50 mg p.o. q nightly, Dulcolax as needed for constipation.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:, Significant for moderate to severe aortic stenosis, urinary tract infection, hypertension, chronic kidney disease (although her creatinine is near normal).,SOCIAL HISTORY:, The patient lives at Life Care Center. She does not smoke, drink or use intravenous drugs.,FAMILY HISTORY:, Negative for cerebrovascular accident or cardiac disease.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:, As in HPI. Patient and daughter also deny weight loss, fevers, chills, sweats, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain. She has had some difficulty expressing herself, but seems to comprehend speech as above. The patient has had a history of chronic urinary tract infections and her drainage is similar to past episodes when she has had such infection.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS: The patient is currently with a temperature of 99.1, blood pressure 138/59, pulse 69, respirations 15. She is 95% on room air.,GENERAL: This is a pleasant elderly female who appears stated age, in mild distress.,HEENT: Oropharynx is dry.,NECK: Supple with no jugular venous distention or thyromegaly.,RESPIRATORY: Clear to auscultation. No wheezes, rubs or crackles.,CARDIOVASCULAR: A 4/6 systolic ejection murmur best heard at the 2nd right intercostal space with radiation to the carotids.,ABDOMEN: Soft. Normal bowel sounds.,EXTREMITIES: No clubbing, cyanosis or edema. She does have bilateral above knee amputations.,NEUROLOGIC: Strength 2/5 in her right hand, 4/5 in her left hand. She does have mild right facial droop and an expressive aphasia.,VASCULAR: The patient has good capillary refill in her fingertips.,LABORATORY DATA:, BUN 52, creatinine 1.3. Normal coags. Glucose 220. White blood cell count 10,800. Urinalysis has 608 white cells, 625 RBCs. Head CT is currently pending. EKG shows normal sinus rhythm with mild ST-depression and biphasic T-waves diffusely.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1. Right-sided weakness with an expressive aphasia, at this time concerning for a left-sided middle cerebral artery cerebrovascular accident/transient ischemic attach given the patient's serious vascular disease. At this point we will hydrate, treat her urinary tract infection, check an MRI, ultrasound of her carotids, and echocardiogram to reevaluate valvular and left ventricular function. Start antiplatelet therapy and ask Neuro to see the patient.,2. Urinary tract infection. Will treat with ceftriaxone, check urine culture data and adjust as needed.,3. Dehydration. Will hydrate with IV fluids and follow p.o. intake while holding diuretics.,4. Diabetes mellitus type 2 uncontrolled. Her sugar is 249. We will continue Lantus insulin and sliding scale coverage, and check hemoglobin A1c to gauge prior control.,5. Prophylaxis. Will institute low molecular weight heparin and follow activity levels.
EXAM: , MRI orbit/face/neck with and without contrast; MR angiography of the head,CLINICAL HISTORY: , 1-day-old female with facial mass.,TECHNIQUE:,1.  Multisequence, multiplanar images of the orbits/face/neck were obtained with and without contrast.  0.5 ml Magnevist was used as the intravenous contrast agent.,2.  MR angiography of the head was obtained using a time-of-flight technique.,3.  The patient was under general anesthesia during the exam.,FINDINGS:,  MRI orbits/face/neck:  There is a pedunculated mass measuring 5.7 x 4.4 x 6.7 cm arising from the patient's lip on the right side.  The mass demonstrates a heterogeneous signal.  There is also heterogeneous enhancement which may relate to a high vascular tumor given the small amount of contrast for the exam.  The origin of the mass from the upper lip demonstrates intact soft tissue planes.,Limited evaluation of the head demonstrates normal appearing midline structures.  Incidental note is made of a small arachnoid cyst within the anterior left middle cranial fossa.  The mastoid air cells on the right are opacified; while the left demonstrates appropriate aeration.,MR angiography of the head:  Angiography is limited such that the vessel feeding the mass cannot be identified with certainty.  The right external carotid artery is noted to be asymmetrically larger than the left, the phenomenon likely related to provision of feeding vessels to the mass.  There is no carotid stenosis.,IMPRESSION:,1.  The mass arising from the right upper lip measures 5.7 x 4.4 x 6.7 cm with a heterogeneous appearance and enhancement pattern.  Hemangioma should be considered in the differential diagnosis as well as other mesenchymal neoplasms.,2.  MR angiography is suboptimal such that feeding vessels to the mass cannot be identified with certainty.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,1.  Bowel obstruction.,2.  Central line fell off.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,1.  Bowel obstruction.,2.  Central line fell off.,PROCEDURE: , Insertion of a triple-lumen central line through the right subclavian vein by the percutaneous technique.,PROCEDURE DETAIL: , This lady has a bowel obstruction.  She was being fed through a central line, which as per the patient was just put yesterday and this slipped out.  At the patient's bedside after obtaining an informed consent, the patient's right deltopectoral area was prepped and draped in the usual fashion.  Xylocaine 1% was infiltrated and with the patient in Trendelenburg position, she had her right subclavian vein percutaneously cannulated without any difficulty.  A Seldinger technique was used and a triple-lumen catheter was inserted.  There was a good flow through all three ports, which were irrigated with saline prior to connection to the IV solutions.,The catheter was affixed to the skin with sutures and then a dressing was applied.,The postprocedure chest x-ray revealed that there were no complications to the procedure and that the catheter was in good place.
REASON FOR VISIT:,  This 48-year-old woman returns in followup after a full-night sleep study performed to evaluate her for daytime fatigue and insomnia.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient presented initially to the Pulmonary Clinic with dyspnea on minimal exertion.  At that time, she was evaluated and found to have evidence for sleep disruption and daytime fatigue.  She also complained of nocturnal choking episodes that have since abated over the past several months.  In the meantime, she had been scheduled for an overnight sleep study performed to evaluate her for sleep apnea, returns today to review her study results.,The patient's sleep patterns consist of going to bed between 9.00 and 10.00 p.m. and awakening in the morning between 5.00 and 6.00 a.m.  She reports difficulty in initiating sleep and then recurrent awakenings every 1 to 2 hours throughout the night.  She reports tossing and turning throughout the night and awakening with the sheets in disarray.  She reports that her sleep was much better quality in the sleep laboratory as compared to home.  When she awakens, she might have a dull headache and feels tired in the morning.  Her daughter reports that she has heard the patient talking during sleep and snoring.  There are no apneic episodes.  The patient reports that she used to cough a lot in the middle of the night, but has no longer been doing so in recent weeks.,During the daytime, the patient reports spending a lot of sedentary time reading and watching TV.  She routinely dozes off during these sedentary activities.  She also might nap between 2.00 and 3.00 p.m., and nods off in the evening hours.,The patient smokes perhaps one to two packs of cigarettes per day, particularly after dinner.,She reports that her weight has fluctuated and peaked at 260 pounds approximately 1 year ago.  Since that time, her weight is down by approximately 30 pounds.,The patient is managed in Outpatient Psychiatry and at her Maintenance Clinic.  She takes methadone, trazodone, and Seroquel.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,1.  Depression.,2.  Hepatitis C.,3.  Hypertension.,4.  Inhaled and intravenous drug abuse history.,The patient has a history of smoking two packs per day of cigarettes for approximately 25 pounds.  She also has a history of recurrent atypical chest pain for which she has been evaluated.,FAMILY HISTORY: , As previously documented.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,The patient has a history of inhalation on intravenous drug abuse.  She is currently on methadone maintenance.  She is being followed in Psychiatry for depression and substance abuse issues.  She lives with a room-mate.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Not contributory.,MEDICATIONS: , Current medications include the following:,1.  Methadone 110 mg by mouth every day.,2.  Paxil 60 mg by mouth every day.,3.  Trazodone 30 mg by mouth nightly.,4.  Seroquel 20 mg by mouth nightly.,5.  Avalide (irbesartan) and hydrochlorothiazide.,6.  Albuterol and Flovent inhalers two puffs by mouth twice a day.,7.  Atrovent as needed.,FINDINGS: , Vital Signs:  Blood pressure 126/84, pulse 67, respiratory rate 18, weight 232 pounds, height 5 feet 8 inches, temperature 97.4 degrees, SaO2 is 99 percent on room air at rest.  HEENT:  Sclerae anicteric.  Conjunctivae pink.  Extraocular movements are intact.  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light.  The nasal passages show deviation in the nasal septum to the right.  There is a slight bloody exudate at the right naris.  Some nasal mucosal edema was noted with serous exudate bilaterally.  The jaw is not foreshortened.  The tongue is not large.  Mallampati airway score was 3.  The oropharynx was not shallow.  There is no pharyngeal mucosa hypertrophy.  No tonsillar tissue noted.  The tongue is not large.  Neck is supple.  Thyroid without nodules or masses.  Carotid upstrokes normal.  No bruits.  No jugular venous distention.  Chest is clear to auscultation and percussion.  No wheezing, rales, rhonchi or adventitious sounds.  No prolongation of the expiratory phase.  Cardiac:  PMI not palpable.  Regular rate and rhythm.  S1 and S2 normal.  No murmurs or gallops.  Abdomen:  Nontender.  Bowel sounds normal.  No liver or spleen palpable.  Extremities:  No clubbing or cyanosis.  There is 1+ pretibial edema.  Pulses are 2+ in upper and lower extremities.  Neurologic:  Grossly nonfocal.,LABORATORIES:,  Pulmonary function studies reportedly show a mild restrictive ventilatory defect without obstruction.  Diffusing capacity is well preserved.,An overnight sleep study was performed on this patient at the end of 02/07.  At that time, she reported that her sleep was better in the laboratories compared to home.  She slept for a total sleep time of 398 minutes out of 432 minutes in bed (sleep proficiency 92 percent).  She fell asleep in the middle of latency of less than 1 minute.  She woke up after sleep onset of 34 minutes.  She had stage I sleep that was some elevated at 28 percent of total sleep time, and stage I sleep is predominantly evident in the lateral portion of the night.  The remainders were stage II at 69 percent, stage III and IV at 3 percent of total sleep time.,The patient had no REM sleep.,The patient had no periodic limb movements during sleep.,The patient had no significant sleep-disordered breathing during non-REM sleep with less than one episode per hour.  Oxyhemoglobin saturation remained in the low to mid 90s throughout the night.,Intermittent inspiratory flow limitation compatible with snoring was observed during non-REM sleep.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: , This patient presents with history of sleep disruption and daytime sleepiness with fatigue.  Her symptoms are multifactorial.,Regarding the etiology of difficulty in initiating and maintaining sleep, the patient has a component of psychophysiologic insomnia, based on reports of better sleep in the laboratory as compared to home.  In addition, nontrivial smoking in the home setting may be contributing significantly to sleep disruption.,Regarding her daytime sleepiness, the patient is taking a number of long-acting central nervous system acting medications to sedate her and can produce a lasting sedation throughout the daytime.  These include trazodone, Seroquel, and methadone.  Of these medications, the methadone is clearly indicative, given the history of substance abuse.  It would be desirable to reduce or discontinue trazodone and then perhaps consider doing the same with Seroquel.  I brought this possibility up with the patient, and I asked her to discuss this further with her psychiatrist.,Finally, to help mitigate sleep disruption at night, I have provided her with tips for sleep hygiene.  These include bedtime rituals, stimulus control therapy, and sleep restriction as well as avoidance of nicotine in the evening hours.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  Ms. Connor is a 50-year-old female who returns to clinic for a wound check.  The patient underwent an APR secondary to refractory ulcerative colitis.  Subsequently, she developed a wound infection, which has since healed.  On our most recent visit to our clinic, she has her perineal stitches removed and presents today for followup of her perineal wound.  She describes no drainage or erythema from her bottom.  She is having good ostomy output.  She does not describe any fevers, chills, nausea, or vomiting.  The patient does describe some intermittent pain beneath the upper portion of the incision as well as in the right lower quadrant below her ostomy.  She has been taking Percocet for this pain and it does work.  She has since run out has been trying extra strength Tylenol, which will occasionally help this intermittent pain.  She is requesting additional pain medications for this occasional abdominal pain, which she still experiences.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , Temperature 95.8, pulse 68, blood pressure 132/73, and weight 159 pounds.  This is a pleasant female in no acute distress.  The patient's abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended with a well-healed midline scar.  There is an ileostomy in the right hemiabdomen, which is pink, patent, productive, and protuberant.  There are no signs of masses or hernias over the patient's abdomen.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: , This is a pleasant 50-year-old female who has undergone an APR secondary to refractory ulcerative colitis.  Overall, her quality of life has significantly improved since she had her APR.  She is functioning well with her ileostomy.  She did have concerns or questions about her diet and we discussed the BRAT diet, which consisted of foods that would slow down the digestive tract such as bananas, rice, toast, cheese, and peanut butter.  I discussed the need to monitor her ileostomy output and preferential amount of daily output is 2 liters or less.  I have counseled her on refraining from soft drinks and fruit drinks.  I have also discussed with her that this diet is moreover a trial and error and that she may try certain foods that did not agree with her ileostomy, however others may and that this is something she will just have to perform trials with over the next several months until she finds what foods that she can and cannot eat with her ileostomy.  She also had questions about her occasional abdominal pain.  I told her that this was probably continue to improve as months went by and I gave her a refill of her Percocet for the continued occasional pain.  I told her that this would the last time I would refill the Percocet and if she has continued pain after she finishes this bottle then she would need to start ibuprofen or Tylenol if she had continued pain.  The patient then brought up some right hand and arm numbness, which has been there postsurgically and was thought to be from positioning during surgery.  This is all primarily gone away except for a little bit of numbness at the tip of the third digit as well as some occasional forearm muscle cramping.  I told her that I felt that this would continue to improve as it has done over the past two months since her surgery.  I told her to continue doing hand exercises as she has been doing and this seems to be working for her.  Overall, I think she has healed from her surgery and is doing very well.  Again, her quality of life is significantly improved.  She is happy with her performance.  We will see her back in six months just for a general routine checkup and see how she is doing at that time.
TITLE OF OPERATION: , Placement of right new ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunts Strata valve and to removal of right frontal Ommaya reservoir.,INDICATION FOR SURGERY: , The patient is a 2-month-old infant, born premature with intraventricular hemorrhage and Ommaya reservoir recommendation for removal and replacement with a new VP shunt.,PREOP DIAGNOSIS: , Hydrocephalus.,POSTOP DIAGNOSIS: , Hydrocephalus.,PROCEDURE DETAIL: , The patient was brought to the operating room, underwent induction of general endotracheal airway, positioned supine, head turned towards left.  The right side prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  Next, using a 15 blade scalpel, two incisions were made, one in the parietooccipital region and.  The second just lateral to the umbilicus.  Once this was clear, the Bactiseal catheter was then tunneled.  This was connected to a Strata valve.  The Strata valve was programmed to a setting of 1.01 and this was ensured.  The small burr hole was then created.  The area was then coagulated.  Once this was completed, new Bactiseal catheter was then inserted.  It was connected to the Strata valve.  There was good distal flow.  The distal end was then inserted into the peritoneal region via trocar.  Once this was insured, all the wounds were irrigated copiously and closed with 3-0 Vicryl and 4-0 Caprosyn as well as Indermil glue.  The right frontal incision was then opened.  The Ommaya reservoir identified and removed.  The wound was then also closed with an inverted 3-0 Vicryl and 4-0 Caprosyn.  Once all the wounds were completed, dry sterile dressings were applied.  The patient was then transported back to the ICU in stable condition intubated.  Blood loss minimal.  All sponge and needle counts were correct.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Chondromalacia patella.,2.  Patellofemoral malalignment syndrome.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Grade-IV chondromalacia patella.,2.  Patellofemoral malalignment syndrome.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Diagnostic arthroscopy with partial chondroplasty of patella.,2.  Lateral retinacular release.,3.  Open tibial tubercle transfer with fixation of two 4.5 mm cannulated screws.,ANESTHESIA:,  General.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,TOURNIQUET TIME: , Approximately 70 minutes at 325 mmHg.,INTRAOPERATIVE FINDINGS: , Grade-IV chondromalacia noted to the central and lateral facet of the patella.  There was a grade II to III chondral changes to the patellar groove.  The patella was noted to be displaced laterally riding on the edge of the lateral femoral condyle.  The medial lateral meniscus showed small amounts of degeneration, but no frank tears were seen.  The articular surfaces and the remainder of the knee appeared intact.  Cruciate ligaments also appeared intact to direct stress testing.,HISTORY:  ,This is a 36-year-old Caucasian female with a long-standing history of right knee pain.  She has been diagnosed in the past with chondromalacia patella.  She has failed conservative therapy.  It was discussed with her the possibility of a arthroscopy lateral release and a tubercle transfer (anterior medialization of the tibial tubercle) to release stress from her femoral patellofemoral joint.  She elected to proceed with the surgical intervention.  All risks and benefits of the surgery were discussed with her.  She was in agreement with the treatment plan.,PROCEDURE: , On 09/04/03, she was taken to Operating Room at ABCD General Hospital.  She was placed supine on the operating table with the general anesthesia administered by the Anesthesia Department.  Her leg was placed in a Johnson knee holder and sterilely prepped and draped in the usual fashion.  A stab incision was made in inferolateral and parapatellar regions.  Through this the cannula was placed and the knee was inflated with saline solution.  Intraoperative pictures were obtained.  The above findings were noted.  Second portal site was initiated in the inferomedial parapatellar region.  Through this, a arthroscopic shaver was placed and the chondroplasty in the patella was performed and removed the loose articular debris.  Next, the camera was placed through the inferomedial portal.  An arthroscopic Bovie was placed through the inferolateral portal.  A release of lateral retinaculum was then performed using the Bovie.  Hemostasis was controlled with electrocautery.  Next, the knee was suctioned dry.  An Esmarch was used to exsanguinate the lower extremity.  Tourniquet was inflated to 325 mmHg.  An oblique incision was made along the medial parapatellar region of the knee.  The subcuticular tissues were carefully dissected and the hemostasis was again controlled with electrocautery.  The retinaculum was then incised in line with the incision.  The patellar tendon was identified.  The lateral and medial border of the tibial tubercle were cleared of all soft tissue debris.  Next, an osteotome was then used to cut the tibial tubercle to 45 degree angle leaving the base of the bone incision intact.  The tubercle was then pushed anteriorly and medially decreasing her Q-angle and anteriorizing the tibial tubercle.  It was then held in place with a Steinmann pin.  Following this, a two 4.5 mm cannulated screws, partially threaded, were drilled in place using standard technique to help fixate the tibial tubercle.  There was excellent fixation noted.  The Q-angle was noted to be decreased to approximately 15 degrees.  She was transferred approximately 1 cm in length.  The wound was copiously irrigated and suctioned dry.  The medial retinaculum was then plicated causing further medialization of the patella.  The retinaculum was reapproximated using #0 Vicryl.  Subcuticular tissue were reapproximated with #2-0 Vicryl.  Skin was closed with #4-0 Vicryl running PDS suture.  Sterile dressing was applied to the lower extremities.  She was placed in a Donjoy knee immobilizer locked in extension.  It was noted that the lower extremity was warm and pink with good capillary refill following deflation of the tourniquet.  She was transferred to recovery room in apparent stable and satisfactory condition.,Prognosis of this patient is poor secondary to the advanced degenerative changes to the patellofemoral joint.  She will remain in the immobilizer approximately six weeks allowing the tubercle to reapproximate itself to the proximal tibia.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Stage IV necrotic sacral decubitus.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Stage IV necrotic sacral decubitus.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,  Debridement of stage IV necrotic sacral decubitus.,GROSS FINDINGS: , This is a 92-year-old African-American female who was brought into the office 48 hours earlier with a chief complaint of necrotic foul-smelling wound in the sacral region and upon examination was found to have absolutely necrosis of the fat and subcutaneous tissue in the sacral region approximately 15 cm x 15 cm.  A long discussion with the family ensued that it needs to be debrided and then cleaned and then if she cannot keep the stool out of the wound that she will probably need a diverting colostomy.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE:  ,The patient was properly prepped and draped under local sedation.  A 0.25% Marcaine was injected circumferentially around the necrotic decubitus.  A wide excision and debridement of the necrotic decubitus taken down to the presacral fascia and all necrotic tissue was electrocauterized and removed.  All bleeding was cauterized with electrocautery and then a Kerlix stack was then placed and a pressure dressing applied.  The patient was sent to recovery in satisfactory condition.
PROCEDURE PERFORMED:  ,DDDR permanent pacemaker.,INDICATION: , Tachybrady syndrome.,PROCEDURE:,  After all risks, benefits, and alternatives of the procedure were explained in detail to the patient, informed consent was obtained both verbally and in writing.  The patient was taken to the Cardiac Catheterization Suite where the right subclavian region was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  1% lidocaine solution was used to infiltrate the skin overlying the left subclavian vein.  Once adequate anesthesia had been obtained, a thin-walled #18-gauze Argon needle was used to cannulate the left subclavian vein.  A steel guidewire was inserted through the needle into the vascular lumen without resistance.  The needle was then removed over the guidewire and the guidewire was secured to the field.  A second #18 gauze Argon needle was used to cannulate the left subclavian vein and once again a steel guidewire was inserted through the needle into the vascular lumen.  Likewise, the needle was removed over the guidewire and the guidewire was then secured to the field.  Next, a #15-knife blade was used to make a 1 to 1.5 inch linear incision over the area.  A #11-knife blade was used to make a deeper incision.  Hemostasis was made complete.  The edges of the incision were grasped and retracted.  Using Metzenbaum scissors, dissection was carried down to the pectoralis muscle fascial plane.  Digital blunt dissection was used to make a pacemaker pocket large enough to accommodate the pacemaker generator.  Metzenbaum scissors were then used to dissect cephalad to expose the guide wires.  The guidewires were then pulled through the pacemaker pocket.  One guidewire was secured to the field.,A bloodless introducer sheath was then advanced over a guidewire into the vascular lumen under fluoroscopic guidance.  The guidewire and dilator were then removed.  Next, a ventricular pacemaker lead was advanced through the sheath and into the vascular lumen and under fluoroscopic guidance guided down into the right atrium.  The pacemaker lead was then placed in the appropriate position in the right ventricle.  Pacing and sensing thresholds were obtained.  The lead was sewn at the pectoralis muscle plane using #2-0 silk suture in an interrupted stitch fashion around the ________.  Pacing and sensing threshold were then reconfirmed.  Next, a second bloodless introducer sheath was advanced over the second guidewire into the vascular lumen.  The guidewire and dilator were then removed.  Under fluoroscopic guidance, the atrial lead was passed into the right atrium.  The sheath was then turned away in standard fashion.  Using fluoroscopic guidance, the atrial lead was then placed in the appropriate position.  Pacing and sensing thresholds were obtained.  The lead was sewn to the pectoralis muscle facial plane utilizing #2-0 silk suture around the ________.  Sensing and pacing thresholds were then reconfirmed.  The leads were wiped free of blood and placed into the pacemaker generator.  The pacemaker generator leads were then placed into pocket with the leads posteriorly.  The deep tissues were closed utilizing #2-0 Chromic suture in an interrupted stitch fashion.  A #4-0 undyed Vicryl was then used to close the subcutaneous tissue in a continuous subcuticular stitch.  Steri-Strips overlaid.  A sterile gauge dressing was placed over the site.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to the Cardiac Catheterization Room in stable and satisfactory condition.,PACEMAKER DATA (GENERATOR DATA):,Manufacturer:  Medtronics.,Model:  Sigma.,Model #:  1234.,Serial #:  123456789.,LEAD INFORMATION:,Right Atrial Lead:,Manufacturer:  Medtronics.,Model #:  1234.,Serial #:  123456789.,VENTRICULAR LEAD:,Manufacturer:  Medtronics.,Model #:  1234.,Serial #:  123456789.,PACING AND SENSING THRESHOLDS:,Right Atrial Bipolar Lead:  Pulse width 0.50 milliseconds, impedance 518 ohms, P-wave sensing 2.2 millivolts, polarity is bipolar.,Ventricular Bipolar Lead:  Pulse width 0.50 milliseconds, voltage 0.7 volts, current 1.5 milliamps, impedance 655 ohms, R-wave sensing 9.7 millivolts, polarity is bipolar.,PARAMETER SETTINGS:,  Pacing mode DDDR:  Mode switch is on, low rate 60, upper 120, ________ is 33.0 milliseconds.,IMPRESSION:,  Successful implantation of DDDR permanent pacemaker.,PLAN:,1.  The patient will be monitored on telemetry for 24 hours to ensure adequate pacemaker function.,2.  The patient will be placed on antibiotics for five days to avoid pacemaker infection.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , She is a 28-year-old G1 at approximately 8 plus weeks presented after intractable nausea and vomiting with blood-tinged vomit starting approximately worse over the past couple of days.  This is patient's fourth trip to the emergency room and second trip for admission.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Nonsignificant.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: , None.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , No alcohol, drugs, or tobacco.,PAST OBSTETRICAL HISTORY:  ,This is her first pregnancy.,PAST GYNECOLOGICAL HISTORY: , Not pertinent.,While in the emergency room, the patient was found to have slight low sodium, potassium slightly elevated and her ALT of 93, AST of 35, total bilirubin is 1.2.  Her urine was 3+ ketones, 2+ protein, and 1+ esterase, and rbc too numerous to count with moderate amount of bacteria.  H and H stable at 14.1 and 48.7.  She was then admitted after giving some Phenergan and Zofran IV.  As started on IV, given hydration as well as given a dose of Rocephin to treat bladder infection.  She was admitted overnight, nausea and vomiting resolved to only one episode of vomiting after receiving Maalox, tolerated fluids as well as p.o. food.  Followup chemistry was obtained for AST, ALT and we will plan for discharge if lab variables resolve.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  This is a 28-year-old G1 at approximately 8 to 9 weeks gestation with one hyperemesis gravidarum admit for IV hydration and followup.,2.  Slightly elevated ALT, questionable, likely due to the nausea and vomiting.  We will recheck for followup.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:, Sinus problems.,SINUSITIS HISTORY:, The problem began 2 weeks ago and is constant. Symptoms include postnasal drainage, sore throat, facial pain, coughing, headaches and congestion. Additional symptoms include snoring, nasal burning and teeth pain. The symptoms are characterized as moderate to severe. Symptoms are worse in the evening and morning.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,ROS General: General health is good.,ROS ENT: As noted in history of present Illness listed above.,ROS Respiratory: Patient denies any respiratory complaints, such as cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, wheezing, hemoptysis, etc.,ROS Gastrointestinal: Patient denies any nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, dysphagia or any altered bowel movements.,ROS Respiratory: Complaints include coughing.,ROS Neurological: Patient complains of headaches. All other systems are negative.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:, Gallbladder 7/82. Hernia 5/79,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:, Negative.,PAST SOCIAL HISTORY:, Marital Status: Married. Denies the use of alcohol. Patient has a history of smoking 1 pack of cigarettes per day and for the past 15 years. There are no animals inside the home.,FAMILY MEDICAL HISTORY:, Family history of allergies and hypertension.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:, Claritin. Dilantin.,PREVIOUS MEDICATIONS UTILIZED:, Rhinocort Nasal Spray.,EXAM:,Exam Ear: Auricles/external auditory canals reveal no significant abnormalities bilaterally. TMs intact with no middle ear effusion and are mobile to insufflation.,Exam Nose: Intranasal exam reveals moderate congestion and purulent mucus.,Exam Oropharynx: Examination of the teeth/alveolar ridges reveals missing molar (s). Examination of the posterior pharynx reveals a prominent uvula and purulent postnasal drainage. The palatine tonsils are 2+ and cryptic.,Exam Neck: Palpation of anterior neck reveals no tenderness. Examination of the posterior neck reveals mild tenderness to palpation of the suboccipital muscles.,Exam Facial: There is bilateral maxillary sinus tenderness to palpation.,X-RAY / LAB FINDINGS:, Water's view x-ray reveals bilateral maxillary mucosal thickening.,IMPRESSION:, Acute maxillary sinusitis (461.0).  Snoring (786.09).,MEDICATION:, Augmentin. 875 mg bid. MucoFen 800 mg bid.,PLAN:,
OPERATION,1.  Ivor-Lewis esophagogastrectomy.,2.  Feeding jejunostomy.,3.  Placement of two right-sided #28-French chest tubes.,4.  Right thoracotomy.,ANESTHESIA:  ,General endotracheal anesthesia with a dual-lumen tube.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , After obtaining informed consent from the patient, including a thorough explanation of the risks and benefits of the aforementioned procedure, the patient was taken to the operating room and general endotracheal anesthesia was administered.  Prior to administration of general anesthesia, the patient had an epidural anesthesia placed.  In addition, he had a dual-lumen endotracheal tube placed.  The patient was placed in the supine position to begin the procedure.  His abdomen and chest were prepped and draped in the standard surgical fashion.  After applying sterile dressings, a #10-blade scalpel was used to make an upper midline incision from the level of the xiphoid to just below the umbilicus.  Dissection was carried down through the linea using Bovie electrocautery.  The abdomen was opened.  Next, a Balfour retractor was positioned as well as a mechanical retractor.  Next, our attention was turned to freeing up the stomach.  In an attempt to do so, we identified the right gastroepiploic artery and arcade.  We incised the omentum and retracted it off the stomach and gastroepiploic arcade.  The omentum was divided using suture ligature with 2-0 silk.  We did this along the greater curvature and then moved to the lesser curvature where the short gastric arteries were taken down with ligation using 2-0 silk.  Next, we turned our attention to performing a Kocher maneuver.  This was done and the stomach was freed up.  We took down the falciform ligament as well as the caudate attachment to the diaphragm.  We enlarged the diaphragmatic hiatus so as to be able to place approximately 3 fingers into the chest.  We also did a portion of the esophageal dissection from the abdomen into the chest area.  The esophagus and the esophageal hiatus were identified in the abdomen.  We next turned our attention to the left gastric artery.  The left gastric artery was identified at the base of the stomach.  We first took the left gastric vein by ligating and dividing it using 0 silk ties.  The left gastric artery was next taken using suture ligature with silk ties followed by 2-0 stick tie reinforcement.  At this point the stomach was freely mobile.  We then turned our attention to performing our jejunostomy feeding tube.  A 2-0 Vicryl pursestring was placed in the jejunum approximately 20 cm distal to the ligament of Treitz.  We then used Bovie electrocautery to open the jejunum at this site.  We placed a 16-French red rubber catheter through this site.  We tied down in place.  We then used 3-0 silk sutures to perform a Witzel.  Next, the loop of jejunum was tacked up to the abdominal wall using 2-0 silk ties.  After doing so and pulling the feeding jejunostomy out through the skin and securing it appropriately, we turned our attention to closing the abdomen.  This was done with #1 Prolene.  We put in a 2nd layer of 2-0 Vicryl.  The skin was closed with 4-0 Monocryl.,Next, we turned our attention to performing the thoracic portion of the procedure.  The patient was placed in the left lateral decubitus position.  The right chest was prepped and draped appropriately.  We then used a #10 blade scalpel to make an incision in a posterolateral, non-muscle-sparing fashion.  Dissection was carried down to the level of the ribs with Bovie electrocautery.  Next, the ribs were counted and the 5th interspace was entered.  The lung was deflated.  We placed standard chest retractors.  Next, we incised the peritoneum over the esophagus.  We dissected the esophagus to just above the azygos vein.  The azygos vein, in fact, was taken with 0 silk ligatures and reinforced with 2-0 stick ties.  As mentioned, we dissected the esophagus both proximally and distally down to the level of the hiatus.  After doing this, we backed our NG tube out to above the level where we planned to perform our pursestring.  We used an automatic pursestring and applied.  We then transected the proximal portion of the stomach with Metzenbaum scissors.  We secured our pursestring and then placed a 28 anvil in the divided proximal portion of the esophagus.  The pursestring was then tied down without difficulty.  Next, we tabularized our stomach using a #80 GIA stapler.  After doing so, we chose a portion of the stomach more distally and opened it using Bovie electrocautery.  We placed our EEA stapler through it and then punched out through the gastric wall.  We connected our anvil to the EEA stapler.  This was then secured appropriately.  We checked to make sure that there was appropriate muscle apposition.  We then fired the stapler.  We obtained 2 complete rings, 1 of the esophagus and 1 of the stomach, which were sent for pathology.  We also sent the gastroesophageal specimen for pathology.  Of note was the fact that the frozen section showed no evidence of tumor and in the proximal distal margins.  We then turned our attention to closing the gastrostomy opening.  This was closed with 2-0 Vicryl in a running fashion.  We then buttressed this with serosal 3-0 Vicryl interrupted sutures.  We returned the newly constructed gastroesophageal anastomosis into the chest and covered it by covering the pleura over it.  Next, we placed two #28-French chest tubes, 1 anteriorly and 1 posteriorly, taking care not to place it near the anastomosis.  We then closed the chest with #2 Vicryl in an interrupted figure-of-eight fashion.  The lung was brought up.  We closed the muscle layers with #0 Vicryl followed by #0 Vicryl; then we closed the subcutaneous layer with 2-0 Vicryl and the skin with 4-0 Monocryl.  Sterile dressing was applied.  The instrument and sponge count was correct at the end of the case.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and was extubated in the operating room and transferred to the ICU in good condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Antibiotic-associated diarrhea.  ,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  ,Antibiotic-associated diarrhea.  ,OPERATION PERFORMED: , Colonoscopy with random biopsies and culture.,INDICATIONS: , The patient is a 50-year-old woman who underwent hemorrhoidectomy approximately one year ago.  She has been having difficulty since that time with intermittent diarrhea and abdominal pain.  She states this happens quite frequently and can even happen when she uses topical prednisone for her ears or for her eyes.  She presents today for screening colonoscopy, based on the same.,OPERATIVE COURSE:  , The risks and benefits of colonoscopy were explained to the patient in detail.  She provided her consent.  The morning of the operation, the patient was transported from the preoperative holding area to the endoscopy suite.  She was placed in the left lateral decubitus position.  In divided doses, she was given 7 mg of Versed and 125 mcg of fentanyl.  A digital rectal examination was performed, after which time the scope was intubated from the anus to the level of the hepatic flexure.  This was intubated fairly easily; however, the patient was clearly in some discomfort and was shouting out, despite the amount of anesthesia she was provided.  In truth, the pain she was experiencing was out of proportion to any maneuver or difficulty with the procedure.  While more medication could have been given, the patient is actually a fairly thin woman and diminutive and I was concerned that giving her any more sedation may lead to respiratory or cardiovascular collapse.  In addition, she was really having quite some difficulty staying still throughout the procedure and was putting us all at some risk.  For this reason, the procedure was aborted at the level of the hepatic flexure.  She was noted to have some pools of stool.  This was suctioned and sent to pathology for C difficile, ova and parasites, and fecal leukocytes.  Additionally, random biopsies were performed of the colon itself.  It is unfortunate we were unable to complete this procedure, as I would have liked to have taken biopsies of the terminal ileum.  However, given the degree of discomfort she had, again, coupled with the relative ease of the procedure itself, I am very suspicious of irritable bowel syndrome.  The patient tolerated the remainder of the procedure fairly well and was sent to the recovery room in stable condition, where it is anticipated she will be discharged to home.,PLAN:,  She needs to follow up with me in approximately 2 weeks' time, both to follow up with her biopsies and cultures.  She has been given a prescription for VSL3, a probiotic, to assist with reculturing the rectum.  She may also benefit from an antispasmodic and/or anxiolytic.  Lastly, it should be noted that when she next undergoes endoscopic procedure, propofol would be indicated.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Stenosing tenosynovitis first dorsal extensor compartment/de Quervain tendonitis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Stenosing tenosynovitis first dorsal extensor compartment/de Quervain tendonitis.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,  Release of first dorsal extensor compartment.,ASSISTANT: , None.,ANESTHESIA: , Bier block.,TOURNIQUET TIME: , 30 minutes.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,INDICATIONS:  ,The above patient is a 47-year-old right hand dominant black female who has signs and symptomology of de Quervain's stenosing tenosynovitis.  She was treated conservatively with steroid injections, splinting, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents without relief.  She is presenting today for release of the first dorsal extensor compartment.  She is aware of the risks, benefits, alternatives and has consented to this operation.,PROCEDURE: , The patient was given intravenous prophylactic antibiotics.  She was taken to the operating suite under the auspices of Anesthesiology.  She was given a left upper extremity bier block.  Her left upper extremity was then prepped and draped in the normal fashion with Betadine solution.  Afterwards, a transverse incision was made over the extensor retinaculum of the first dorsal extensor compartment.  Dissection was carried down through the dermis into the subcutaneous tissue.  The dorsal radial sensory branches were kept out of harm's way.  They were retracted gently to the ulnar side of the wrist.  The retinaculum was incised with a #15 scalpel blade in the longitudinal fashion and the retinaculum was released completely both proximally and distally.  Both the extensor pollices brevis and abductor pollices longus tendons were identified.  There was no pathology noted within the first dorsal extensor compartment.  The wound was irrigated.  Hemostasis was obtained with bipolar cautery.  The wound was infiltrated with _0.25% Marcaine solution and then closure performed with #6-0 nylon suture utilizing a horizontal mattress stitch.  Sterile occlusive dressing was applied along with the thumb spica splint.  The tourniquet was released and the patient was transported to the recovery area in stable and satisfactory condition.
CC: ,Paraplegia.,HX:, This 32 y/o RHF had been performing missionary work in Jos, Nigeria for several years and delivered her 4th child by vaginal delivery on 4/10/97. The delivery was induced with Pitocin, but was otherwise uncomplicated. For the first 4 days post-partum she noted clear liquid diarrhea without blood and minor abdominal discomfort. This spontaneous resolved without medical treatment. The second week post-partum she had 4-5 days of sinusitis, purulent nasal discharge and facial pain. She was otherwise well until 5/4/97 when stationed in a more rural area of Nigeria, she noted a dull ache in both knees (lateral to the patellae) and proximal tibia, bilaterally. The pain was not relieved by massage and seemed more bothersome when seated or supine. She had no sensory loss at the time.,On 5/6/97, she awakened to pain radiating down her knees to her anterior tibia. Over the next few hours the pain radiated circumferentially around both calves, and involved the soles of her feet and posterior BLE to her buttocks. Rising from bed became a laborious task and she required assistance to walk to the bathroom. Ibuprofen provided minimal analgesia. By evening the sole of one foot was numb.,She awoke the next morning, 5/9/97, with "pins & needles" sensation in BLE up to her buttocks. She was given Darvocet for analgesia and took an airplane back to the larger city she was based in. During the one hour flight her BLE weakness progressed to a non-weight bearing state (i.e. she could not stand). Local evaluation revealed 3/3 proximal and 4/4 distal BLE weakness. She had a sensory level to her waist on PP and LT testing. She also had mild lumbar back pain. Local laboratory evaluation: WBC 12.7, ESR 10. She was presumed to have Guillain-Barre syndrome and was placed on Solu-Cortef 1000mg qd and Sandimmune IV IgG 12.0 g.,On 5/10/97, she was airlifted to Geneva, Switzerland. Upon arrival there she had total anesthesia from the feet up to the inguinal region, bilaterally. There was flaccid areflexic paralysis of BLE and she was unable to void or defecate. Straight catheterization of the bladder revealed a residual volume of 1000cc. On 5/12/ CSF analysis revealed: Protein 1.5g/l, Glucose 2.2mmol/l, WBC 92 (O PMNS, 100% Lymphocytes), RBC 70, Clear CSF, bacterial-fungal-AFB-cultures were negative. Broad spectrum antibiotics and Solu-Medrol 1g IV qd were started. MRI T-L-spine, 5/12/97 revealed an intradural T12-L1 lesion that enhanced minimally with gadolinium and was associated with spinal cord edema in the affected area. MRI Brain, 5/12/97, was unremarkable and showed no evidence of demyelinating disease. HIV, HTLV-1, HSV, Lyme, EBV, Malaria and CMV serological titers were negative. On 5/15/97 the Schistosomiasis Mekongi IFAT serological titer returned positive at 1:320 (normal<1:80). 5/12/97 CSF Schistosomiasis Mekongi IFAT and ELISA were negative. She was then given a one day course of Praziquantel 3.6g total in 3 doses; and started on Prednisone 60 mg po qd; the broad spectrum antibiotics and Solu-Medrol were discontinued.,On 5/22/97, a rectal biopsy was performed to evaluate parasite eradication. The result came back positive for ova and granulomata after she had left for UIHC. The organism was not speciated. 5/22/97 CSF schistosomiasis ELISA and IFAT titers were positive at 1.09 and 1:160, respectively. These titers were not known when she initially arrived at UIHC.,Following administration of Praziquantel, she regained some sensation in BLE but the paraplegia, and urinary retention remained.,MEDS:, On 5/24/97 UIHC arrival: Prednisone 60mg qd, Zantac 50 IV qd, Propulsid 20mg tid, Enoxaparin 20mg qd.,PMH:, 1)G4P4.,FHX:, unremarkable.,SHX: ,Missionary. Married. 4 children ( ages 7,5,3,6 weeks).,EXAM:, BP110/70, HR72, RR16, 35.6C,MS: A&O to person, place and time. Speech fluent and without dysarthria. Lucid thought process.,CN: unremarkable.,Motor: 5/5 BUE strength. Lower extremities: 1/1 quads and hamstrings, 0/0 distally.,Sensory: Decreased PP/LT/VIB from feet to inguinal regions, bilaterally. T12 sensory level to temperature (ice glove).,Coord: normal FNF.,Station/Gait: not done.,Reflexes: 2/2 BUE. 0/0 BLE. No plantar responses, bilaterally.,Rectal: decreased to no rectal tone. Guaiac negative.,Other: No Lhermitte's sign. No paraspinal hypertonicity noted. No vertebral tenderness.,Gen exam: Unremarkable.,COURSE:, MRI T-L-spine, 5/24/97, revealed a 6 x 8 x 25 soft tissue mass at the L1 level posterior to the tip of the conus medullaris and extending into the canal below that level. This appeared to be intradural. There was mild enhancement. There was more enhancement along the distal cord surface and cauda equina. The distal cord had sign of diffuse edema. She underwent exploratory and decompressive laminectomy on 5/27/97, and was retreated with a one day course of Praziquantel 40mg/kg/day. Praziquantel is reportedly only 80% effective at parasite eradication.,She continued to reside on the Neurology/Neurosurgical service on 5/31/97 and remained paraplegic.
DUPLEX ULTRASOUND OF LEGS,RIGHT LEG:,  Duplex imaging was carried out according to normal protocol with a 7.5 Mhz imaging probe using B-mode ultrasound.  Deep veins were imaged at the level of the common femoral and popliteal veins.  All deep veins demonstrated compressibility without evidence of intraluminal thrombus or increased echogenicity.,The long saphenous system displayed compressibility without evidence of thrombosis.  The long saphenous vein measured * cm at the proximal thigh with reflux of * seconds after release of distal compression and * cm at the knee with reflux of * seconds after release of distal compression.  The small saphenous system measured * cm at the proximal calf with reflux of * seconds after release of distal compression.,LEFT LEG:,  Duplex imaging was carried out according to normal protocol with a 7.5 Mhz imaging probe using B-mode ultrasound.  Deep veins were imaged at the level of the common femoral and popliteal veins.  All deep veins demonstrated compressibility without evidence of intraluminal thrombus or increased echogenicity.,The long saphenous system displayed compressibility without evidence of thrombosis.  The long saphenous vein measured * cm at the proximal thigh with reflux of * seconds after release of distal compression and * cm at the knee with reflux of * seconds after release of distal compression.  The small saphenous system measured * cm at the proximal calf with reflux of * seconds after release of distal compression.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Colon polyps.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Universal diverticulosis.,2.  Nonsurgical internal hemorrhoids.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:, Total colonoscopy with photos.,ANESTHESIA:,  Demerol 100 mg IV with Versed 3 mg IV.,SPECIMENS: , None.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Minimal.,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE:  ,The patient is a 62-year-old white male who presents to the office with a history of colon polyps and need for recheck.,PROCEDURE:,  Informed consent was obtained.  All risks and benefits of the procedure were explained and all questions were answered.  The patient was brought back to the Endoscopy Suite where he was connected to cardiopulmonary monitoring.  Demerol 100 mg IV and Versed 3 mg IV was given in a titrated fashion until appropriate anesthesia was obtained.  Upon appropriate anesthesia, a digital rectal exam was performed, which showed no masses.  The colonoscope was then placed into the anus and the air was insufflated.  The scope was then advanced under direct vision into the rectum, rectosigmoid colon, descending colon, transverse colon, ascending colon until it reached the cecum.  Upon entering the sigmoid colon and throughout the rest of the colon, there was noted diverticulosis.  After reaching the cecum, the scope was fully withdrawn visualizing all walls again noting universal diverticulosis.,Upon reaching the rectum, the scope was then retroflexed upon itself and there was noted to be nonsurgical internal hemorrhoids.  The scope was then subsequently removed.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and there were no complications.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Gangrene osteomyelitis, right second toe.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Gangrene osteomyelitis, right second toe.,OPERATIVE REPORT:  ,The patient is a 58-year-old female with poorly controlled diabetes with severe lower extremity lymphedema.  The patient has history of previous right foot infection requiring first ray resection.  The patient has ulcerations of right second toe dorsally at the proximal interphalangeal joint, which has failed to respond to conservative treatment.  The patient now has exposed bone and osteomyelitis in the second toe.  The patient has been on IV antibiotics as an outpatient and has failed to respond to these and presents today for surgical intervention.,After an IV was started by the Department of Anesthesia, the patient was taken back to the operating room and placed on the operative table in the supine position.  A restraint belt was placed around the patient's waist using copious amounts of Webril and an ankle pneumatic tourniquet was placed around the patient's right ankle and the patient was made comfortable by the Department of Anesthesia.  After adequate amounts of sedation had been given to the patient, we administered a block of 10 cc of 0.5% Marcaine plain in proximal digital block around the second digit.  The foot and ankle were then prepped in the normal sterile orthopedic manner.  The foot was elevated and an Esmarch bandage applied to exsanguinate the foot.  The tourniquet was then inflated to 250 mmHg and the foot was brought back onto the table.  Using Band-Aid scissors, the stockinet was cut and reflected and using a wet and dry sponge, the foot was wiped, cleaned, and the second toe identified.,Using a skin scrape, a racket type incision was planned around the second toe to allow also remodelling of previous operative site.  Using a fresh #10 blade, skin incision was made circumferentially in the racket-shaped manner around the second digit.  Then, using a fresh #15 blade, the incision was deepened and was taken down to the level of the second metatarsophalangeal joint.  Care was taken to identify bleeders and cautery was used as necessary for hemostasis.  After cleaning up all the soft tissue attachments, the second digit was disarticulated down to the level of the metatarsophalangeal joint.  The head of the second metatarsal was inspected and was noted to have good glistening white cartilage with no areas of erosion evident by visual examination.  Attention was then directed to closure of the wound.  All remaining tissue was noted to be healthy and granular in appearance with no necrotic tissue evident.  Areas of subcutaneous tissue were then removed through a sharp dissection in order to allow better approximation of the skin edges.  Due to long-standing lower extremity lymphedema and postoperative changes on previous surgery, I thought that we were unable to close the incision in entirety.  Therefore, after copious amounts of irrigation using sterile saline, it was determined to use modified dental rolls using #4-0 gauze to remove tension from the skin.  Deep vertical mattress sutures were used in order to reapproximate more closely, the skin edges and bring the plantar flap of skin up to the dorsal skin.  This was obtained using #2-0 nylon suture.  Following this, the remaining exposed tissue from the wound was covered using moist to dry saline soaked 4 x 4 gauze.  The wound was then dressed using 4 x 4 gauze fluffed with abdominal pads, then using Kling and Kerlix and an ACE bandage to provide compression.  The tourniquet was deflated at 42 minutes' time and hemostasis was noted to be achieved.  The ACE bandage was extended up to just below the knee and no bleeding striking to the bandages was appreciated.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and was escorted to the Postanesthesia Care Unit with vital signs stable and vascular status intact, as was evidenced by capillary bleeding, which was present during the procedure.  Sedation was given postoperative introductions, which include to remain nonweightbearing to her right foot.  The patient was instructed to keep the foot elevated and to apply ice behind her knee as necessary, no more than 20 minutes each hour.  The patient was instructed to continue her regular medications.  The patient was to continue IV antibiotic course and was given prescription for Vicoprofen to be taken q.4h. p.r.n. for moderate to severe pain #30.  The patient will followup with Podiatry on Monday morning at 8:30 in the Podiatry Clinic for dressing change and evaluation of her foot at that time.,The patient was instructed as to signs and symptoms of infection, was instructed to return to the Emergency Department immediately if these should present.  The second digit was sent to Pathology for gross and micro.
DIAGNOSIS: , Left knee osteoarthritis.,HISTORY: , The patient is a 58-year-old female, referred to therapy due to left knee osteoarthritis.  The patient states that approximately 2 years ago, she fell to the ground and thereafter had blood clots in the knee area.  The patient was transferred from the hospital to a nursing home and lived there for 1 year.  Prior to this incident, the patient was ambulating independently with a pickup walker throughout her home.  Since that time, the patient has only been performing transverse and has been unable to ambulate.  The patient states that her primary concern is her left knee pain and they desire to walk short distances again in her home.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , High blood pressure, obesity, right patellar fracture with pin in 1990, and history of blood clots.,MEDICATIONS:  ,Naproxen, Plavix, and stool softener.,MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS: , The patient states that she had an x-ray of the knee in 2007 and was diagnosed with osteoarthritis.,SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient reports that when seated and at rest, her knee pain is 0/10.  The patient states that with active motion of the left knee, the pain in the anterior portion increases to 5/10.,PATIENT'S GOAL: , To transfer better and walk 5 feet from her bed to the couch.,INSPECTION: , The right knee has a large 8-inch long and very wide tight scar with adhesions to the underlying connective tissue due to her patellar fracture and surgery following an MVA in 1990, bilateral knees are very large due to obesity.  There are no scars, bruising or increased temperature noted in the left knee.,RANGE OF MOTION: , Active and passive range of motion of the right knee is 0 to 90 degrees and the left knee, 0 to 85 degrees.  Pain is elicited during active range of motion of the left knee.,PALPATION: , Palpation to the left knee elicits pain around the patellar tendon and to each side of this area.,FUNCTIONAL MOBILITY:  ,The patient reports that she transfers with standby to contact-guard assist in the home from her bed to her wheelchair and return.  The patient is able to stand modified independent from wheelchair level and tolerates at least 15 seconds of standing prior to needing to sit down due to the left knee pain.,ASSESSMENT:  ,The patient is a 58-year-old female with left knee osteoarthritis.  Examination indicates deficits in pain, muscle endurance, and functional mobility.  The patient would benefit from skilled physical therapy to address these impairments.,TREATMENT PLAN:  ,The patient will be seen two times per week for an initial 4 weeks with re-assessment at that time for an additional 4 weeks if needed.,INTERVENTIONS INCLUDE:,1.  Modalities including electrical stimulation, ultrasound, heat, and ice.,2.  Therapeutic exercise.,3.  Functional mobility training.,4.  Gait training.,LONG-TERM GOALS TO BE ACHIEVED IN 4 WEEKS:,1.  The patient is to have increased endurance in bilateral lower extremities as demonstrated by being able to perform 20 repetitions of all lower extremity exercises in seated and supine positions with minimum 2-pound weight.,2.  The patient is to perform standby assist transfer using a pickup walker.,3.  The patient is to demonstrate 4 steps of ambulation using forward and backward using a pickup walker or front-wheeled walker.,4.  The patient is to report maximum 3/10 pain with weightbearing of 2 minutes in the left knee.,LONG-TERM GOALS TO BE ACHIEVED IN 8 WEEKS:,1.  The patient is to be independent with the home exercise program.,2.  The patient is to tolerate 20 reps of standing exercises with pain maximum of 3/10.,3.  The patient is to ambulate 20 feet with the most appropriate assistive device.,PROGNOSIS TO THE ABOVE-STATED GOALS:,  Fair to good.,The above treatment plan has been discussed with the patient.  She is in agreement.
ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS: , Gastrointestinal bleed.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,Ms. XYZ is an 81-year-old who presented to the emergency room after having multiple black tarry stools and a weak spell.  She states that she woke yesterday morning and at approximately 10:30 had a bowel movement.  She noticed it was very dark and smelly.  She said she felt okay.  She got up.  She proceeded to clean her house without any difficulty or problems and then at approximately 2 o'clock in the afternoon she went back to the bathroom at which point she had another large stool and had weak spell felt like she was going to pass out.  She is able to get to her phone, called EMS and when the EMS arrived they found her with some blood and some very dark stools.  She states that she was perfectly fine up until Monday when she had an incident where at the Southern University where she works where there was an altercation between a dorm resistant and a young male, which ensued.  She came to place her call, etc.  She said she noticed her stomach was hurting after that, continued to hurt and she took the day off on Tuesday and this happened yesterday.  She denies any nausea except for when she got weak.  She denies any vomiting or any other symptoms.,ALLERGIES:  ,She has no known drug allergies.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,1.  Lipitor, dose unknown.,2.  Paxil, dose unknown.,3.  Lasix, dose unknown.,4.  Toprol, dose unknown.,5.  Diphenhydramine p.r.n.,6.  Ibuprofen p.r.n.,7.  Daypro p.r.n.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,1.  Non-insulin diabetes mellitus.,2.  History of congestive heart failure.,3.  History of hypertension.,4.  Depression.,5.  Arthritis.  She states she has not needed any medications and not taken ibuprofen or Daypro recently.,6.  Hyperlipidemia.,7.  Peptic ulcer disease diagnosed in 2005.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: , C-section and tonsillectomy.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Her mother had high blood pressure and coronary artery disease.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  She is a nonsmoker.  She occasionally has a drink every few weeks.  She is divorced.  She has 2 sons.  She is houseparent at Southern University.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  ,Negative for the last 24 to 48 hours as mentioned in her HPI.,PREVENTIVE CARE:  ,She had an EGD done in 09/05 at which point she was diagnosed with peptic ulcer disease and she also had a colonoscopy at that time which revealed two polyps in the transverse colon.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  Currently was stable.  She is afebrile.,GENERAL:  She is alert, pleasant in no acute distress.  She does complain of some dizziness when she stands up.,HEENT:  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.  Extraocular muscles intact.  Sclerae clear.  Oropharynx is clear.,NECK:  Supple.  Full range of motion.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  She is slightly tachycardic but otherwise normal.,LUNGS:  Clear bilaterally.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender, and nondistended.  She has no hepatomegaly.,EXTREMITIES:  No clubbing, cyanosis, only trace edema.,LABORATORY DATA UPON ADMISSION:,  Her initial chem panel was within normal limits.  Her PT and PTT were normal.  Her initial hematocrit was 31.2 subsequently dropped to 26.9 and 25.6.  She is currently administered transfusion.  Platelet count was 125.  Her chem panel actually showed an elevated BUN of 16, creatinine of 1.7.  PT and PTT were normal.  Cardiac enzymes were negative and initial hemoglobin was 10.6 with hematocrit of 31.2 that subsequently fell to 25.6 and she is currently receiving blood.,IMPRESSION AND PLAN:,1.  Gastrointestinal bleed.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Menorrhagia and dysmenorrhea.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Menorrhagia and dysmenorrhea.,PROCEDURE: , Laparoscopic supracervical hysterectomy.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , 100 mL.,FINDINGS: , An 8-10 cm anteverted uterus, right ovary with a 2 cm x 2 cm x 2 cm simple cyst containing straw colored fluid, a normal-appearing left ovary, and normal-appearing tubes bilaterally.,SPECIMENS:  ,Uterine fragments.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was brought to the OR where general endotracheal anesthesia was obtained without difficulty.  The patient was placed in dorsal lithotomy position.  Examination under anesthesia revealed an anteverted uterus and no adnexal masses.  The patient was prepped and draped in normal sterile fashion.  A Foley catheter was placed in the patient's bladder.  The patient's cervix was visualized with speculum.  A single-tooth tenaculum was placed on the anterior lip of the cervix.  A HUMI uterine manipulator was placed through the internal os of the cervix and the balloon was inflated.  The tenaculum and speculum were then removed from the vagina.  Attention was then turned to the patient's abdomen where a small infraumbilical incision was made with scalpel.  Veress needle was placed through this incision and the patient's abdomen was inflated to a pressure of 15 mmHg.  Veress needle was removed and then 5-mm trocar was placed through the umbilical incision.  Laparoscope was placed through this incision and the patient's abdominal contents were visualized.  A 2nd trocar incision was placed in the midline 2 cm above the symphysis pubis and a 5-mm trocar was placed through this incision on direct visualization for laparoscope.  A trocar incision was made in the right lower quadrant.  A 10-mm trocar was placed through this incision under direct visualization with the laparoscope.  A ___ trocar incision was made in the left lower quadrant and a 2nd 10-mm trocar was placed through this incision under direct visualization with the laparoscope.  The patient's abdominal and pelvic anatomy were again visualized with the assistance of a blunt probe.  The Gyrus cautery was used to cauterize and cut the right and left round ligaments.  The anterior leaf of the broad ligament was bluntly dissected and cauterized and cut in an inferior fashion towards lower uterine segment.  The right uteroovarian ligament was cauterized and cut using the Gyrus.  The uterine vessels were then bluntly dissected.  The Gyrus was then used to cauterize the right uterine vessels.  Gyrus was then used on the left side to cauterize and cut the left round ligament.  The anterior leaf of the broad ligament on the left side was bluntly dissected, cauterized, and cut.  Using the Gyrus, the left uteroovarian ligament was cauterized and cut and the left uterine vessels were then bluntly dissected.  The left uterine vessels were then cauterized and cut using the Gyrus.  At this point, as the uterine vessels had been cauterized on both sides, the uterine body exhibited blanching.  At this point, the Harmonic scalpel hook was used to amputate the uterine body from the cervix at the level just below the uterine vessels.  The HUMI manipulator was removed prior to amputation of the uterine body.  After the uterine body was detached from the cervical stump, morcellation of the uterine body was performed using the uterine morcellator.  The uterus was removed in a piecemeal fashion through the right lower quadrant trocar incision.  Once, all fragments of the uterus were removed from the abdominal cavity, the pelvis was irrigated.  The Harmonic scalpel was used to cauterize the remaining endocervical canal.  The cervical stump was also cauterized with the Harmonic scalpel and good hemostasis was noted at the cervical stump and also at the sites of all pedicles.  The Harmonic scalpel was then used to incise the right ovarian simple cyst.  The right ovarian cyst was then drained yielding straw-colored fluid.  The site of right ovarian cystotomy was noted to be hemostatic.  The pelvis was again inspected and noted to be hemostatic.  The ureters were identified on both sides and noted to be intact throughout the visualized course.  All instruments were then removed from the patient's abdomen and the abdomen was deflated.  The fascial defects at the 10-mm trocar sites were closed using figure-of-8 sutures of 0-Vicryl and skin incisions were closed with a 4-0 Vicryl in subcuticular fashion.  The cervix was then visualized with the speculum.  Good hemostasis at the site of tenaculum insertion was obtained using silver nitrate sticks.  All instruments were removed from the patient's vagina and the patient was placed in normal supine position.,Sponge, lap, needle, and instrument counts were correct x2.  The patient was awoken from anesthesia and then transferred to the recovery room in stable condition.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: , Decreased ability to perform daily living activities secondary to exacerbation of chronic back pain.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  The patient is a 45-year-old white male who was admitted with acute back pain.  The patient reports that he had chronic problem with back pain for approximately 20 years, but it has gotten progressively worse over the last 3 years.  On 08/29/2007, the patient had awoken and started his day as he normally does, but midday, he reports that he was in such severe back pain and he was unable to walk or stand upright.  He was seen at ABCD Hospital Emergency Room, was evaluated and admitted.  He was treated with IV analgesics as well as Decadron, after being evaluated by Dr. A.  It was decided that the patient could benefit from physical therapy, since he was unable to perform ADLs, and was transferred to TCU at St. Joseph Health Services on 08/30/2007.  He had been transferred with diagnosis of a back pain secondary to intravertebral lumbar disk disease, secondary to degenerative changes.  The patient reports that he has had a " bulging disk" for approximately 1 year.  He reports that he has history of testicular cancer in the distant past and the most recent bone scan was negative.  The bone scan was done at XYZ Hospital, ordered by Dr. B, the patient's oncologist.,ALLERGIES: , PENICILLIN, AMOXICILLIN, CEPHALOSPORIN, DOXYCYCLINE, IVP DYE, IODINE, and SULFA, all cause HIVES.,Additionally, the patient reports that he has HIVES when he comes in contact with SAP FROM THE MANGO TREE, and therefore, he avoids any mango product at all.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Status post right orchiectomy secondary to his testicular cancer 18 years ago approximately 1989, GERD, irritable bowel syndrome, seasonal asthma (fall and spring) triggered by postnasal drip, history of bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome, and status post excision of abdominal teratoma and incisional hernia.,FAMILY HISTORY:,  Noncontributory.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , The patient is employed in the finance department.  He is a nonsmoker.  He does consume alcohol on the weekend as much as 3 to 4 alcoholic beverages per day on the weekends.  He denies any IV drug use or abuse.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , No chills, fever, shakes or tremors.  Denies chest pain palpitations, hemoptysis, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation or hematemesis.  The patient reports that his last bowel movement was on 08/30/2007.  No urological symptoms such as dysuria, frequency, incomplete bladder emptying or voiding difficulties.  The patient does report that he has occasional intermittent "numbness and tingling" of his hands bilaterally as he has a history of bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome.  He denies any history of seizure disorders, but he did report that he had some momentary dizziness earlier, but that has since resolved.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  At the time of admission, temperature 98, blood pressure 176/97, pulse 86, respirations 20, and 95% O2 saturation on room air.  The patient weighs 260 pounds and is 5 feet and 10 inches tall by his report.,GENERAL:  The patient appears to be comfortable, in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Normocephalic.  Sclerae are nonicteric.  EOMI.  Tongue is at midline and no evidence of thrush.,NECK:  Trachea is at the midline.,LYMPHATICS:  No cervical or axillary nodes palpable.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm.  Normal S1 and S2.,ABDOMEN:  Obese, softly protuberant, and nontender.,EXTREMITIES:  There is no clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  There is no calf tenderness bilaterally.  Bilateral strength is 5/5 for the upper extremities bilaterally and he has 5/5 of left lower extremity.  The right lower extremity is 4-5/5.,MENTAL STATUS:  He is alert and oriented.  He was pleasant and cooperative during the examination.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Acute on chronic back pain.  The patient is admitted to the TCU at St. Joseph Health Services for rehabilitation therapy.  He will be seen in consultation by Physical Therapy and Occupational Therapy.  He will continue a tapering dose of Decadron over the next 10 to 14 days and a tapering schedule has been provided, also Percocet 5/325 mg 1 to 2 tablets q.i.d. p.r.n. for pain.,2.  Status post right orchiectomy secondary to testicular cancer, stable at this time.  We will attempt to obtain copy of the most recent bone scan performed at XYZ Hospital ordered by Dr. B.,3.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease, irritable bowel syndrome, and gastrointestinal prophylaxis.  Colace 100 mg b.i.d., lactulose will be used on a p.r.n. basis, and Protonix 40 mg daily.,4.  Deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis will be maintained by the patient, continue to engage in his therapies including ambulating in the halls and doing leg exercises as well.,5.  Obesity.  As mentioned above, the patient's weighs 260 pounds with a height of 5 feet and 10 inches, and we had discussed possible weight loss plan, which he is interested in pursuing and a dietary consult has been requested.
EXAM:,  MRI Head W&WO Contrast.,REASON FOR EXAM:,  Dyspnea.,COMPARISON:,  None. ,TECHNIQUE:,  MRI of the head performed without and with 12 ml of IV gadolinium (Magnevist).  ,INTERPRETATION: , There are no abnormal/unexpected foci of contrast enhancement.  There are no diffusion weighted signal abnormalities.  There are minimal, predominantly periventricular, deep white matter patchy foci of FLAIR/T2 signal hyperintensity, the rest of the brain parenchyma appearing unremarkable in signal.  The ventricles and sulci are prominent, but proportionate.  Per T2 weighted sequence, there is no hyperdense vascularity.  There are no calvarial signal abnormalities.  There is no significant mastoid air cell fluid.  No significant sinus mucosal disease per MRI.,IMPRESSION:,1.  No abnormal/unexpected foci of contrast enhancement; specifically, no evidence for metastases or masses.  ,2.  No evidence for acute infarction. ,3.  Mild, scattered, patchy, chronic small vessel ischemic disease changes. ,4.  Diffuse cortical volume loss, consistent with patient's age. ,5.  Preliminary report was issued at the time of dictation.  ,
REASON FOR CONSULTATION:,  Cardiomyopathy and hypotension.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  I am seeing the patient upon the request of Dr. X.  The patient is very well known to me, an 81-year-old lady with dementia, a native American with coronary artery disease with prior bypass, reduced LV function, recurrent admissions for diarrhea and hypotension several times in November and was admitted yesterday because of having diarrhea with hypotension and acute renal insufficiency secondary to that.  Because of her pre-existing coronary artery disease and cardiomyopathy with EF of about 30%, we were consulted to evaluate the patient.  The patient denies any chest pain or chest pressure.  Denies any palpitations.  No bleeding difficulty.  No dizzy spells.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,CONSTITUTIONAL:  No fever or chills.,EYES:  No visual disturbances.,ENT:  No difficulty swallowing.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Basically, no angina or chest pressure.  No palpitations.,RESPIRATORY:  No wheezes.,GI:  No abdominal pain, although she had diarrhea.,GU:  No specific symptoms.,MUSCULOSKELETAL:  Have sores on the back.,NEUROLOGIC:  Have dementia.,All other systems are otherwise unremarkable as far as the patient can give me information.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,1.  Positive for coronary artery disease for about two to three years.,2.  Hypertension.,3.  Anemia.,4.  Chronic renal insufficiency.,5.  Congestive heart failure with EF of 25% to 30%.,6.  Osteoporosis.,7.  Compression fractures.,8.  Diabetes mellitus.,9.  Hypothyroidism.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:,1.  Coronary artery bypass grafting x3 in 2008.,2.  Cholecystectomy.,3.  Amputation of the right second toe.,4.  ICD implantation.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS AT HOME:,1.  Amoxicillin.,2.  Clavulanic acid or Augmentin every 12 hours.,3.  Clopidogrel 75 mg daily.,4.  Simvastatin 20 mg daily.,5.  Sodium bicarbonate 650 mg twice daily.,6.  Gabapentin 300 mg.,7.  Levothyroxine once daily.,8.  Digoxin 125 mcg daily.,9.  Fenofibrate 145 mg daily.,10.  Aspirin 81 mg daily.,11.  Raloxifene once daily.,12.  Calcium carbonate and alendronate.,13.  Metoprolol 25 mg daily.,14.  Brimonidine ophthalmic once daily.,ALLERGIES: , She has no known allergies.,FAMILY HISTORY: 
CHIEF COMPLAINT:,
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,1.  Acute coronary artery syndrome with ST segment elevation in anterior wall distribution.,2.  Documented coronary artery disease with previous angioplasty and stent in the left anterior descending artery and circumflex artery, last procedure in 2005.,3.  Primary malignant ventricular arrhythmia and necessitated ventricular fibrillation.  He is intubated and ventilated.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Acute coronary artery syndrome with ST segment elevation in anterior wall distribution.  Primary ventricular arrhythmia.  Occluded left anterior descending artery, successfully re-canalized with angioplasty and implantation of the drug-eluting stent.  Previously stented circumflex with mild stenosis and previously documented occlusion of the right coronary artery, well collateralized.,PROCEDURES:,  Left heart catheterization, selective bilateral coronary angiography and left ventriculography.  Revascularization of the left anterior descending with angioplasty and implantation of a drug-eluting stent.  Right heart catheterization and Swan-Ganz catheter placement for monitoring.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:  ,The patient arrived from the emergency room intubated and ventilated.  He is hemodynamically stable on heparin and Integrilin bolus and infusion was initiated.  The right femoral area was prepped and draped in usual sterile fashion.  Lidocaine 2 mL was then filled locally.  The right femoral artery was cannulated with an 18-guage needle followed by a 6-French vascular sheath.  A guiding catheter XB 3.5 was advanced in manipulated to cannulate the left coronary artery and angiography was obtained.  A confirmed occlusion of the left anterior descending artery with minimal collaterals and also occlusion of the right coronary artery, which is well collateralized.  An angioplasty wire with present wire was advanced into the left anterior descending artery, and could cross the area of occlusion within the stent.  An angioplasty balloon measuring 2.0 x 15 was advanced and three inflations were obtained.  It successfully re-canalized the artery.  There is evidence of residual stenosis within the distal aspect of the previous stents.  A drug-eluting stent Xience 2.75 x 15 was advanced and positioned within the area of stenosis with its distal marker adjacent to bifurcation with a diagonal branch and was deployed at 12 and 18 atmospheres.  The intermittent result was improved.  An additional inflation was obtained more proximally.  His blood pressure fluctuated and dropped in the 70s, correlating with additional sedation.  There is patency of the left anterior descending artery and good antegrade flow.  The guiding catheter was replaced with a 5-French Judkins right catheter manipulated to cannulate the right coronary artery and selective angiography was obtained.  The catheter was then advanced into the left ventricle and pressure measurement was obtained including pullback across the aortic valve.  The right femoral vein was cannulated with an 18-guage needle followed by an 8-French vascular sheath.  A 8-French Swan-Ganz catheter was then advanced under fluoroscopic and hemodynamic control and pressure stenting was obtained from the right ventricle, pulmonary artery, and pulmonary capillary wedge position.  Cardiac catheter was determined by thermal dilution.  The procedure was then concluded, well tolerated and without complications.  The vascular sheath was in secured in place and the patient return to the coronary care unit for further monitoring.  Fluoroscopy time was 8.2 minutes.  Total amount of contrast was 113 mL.,HEMODYNAMICS:,  The patient remained in sinus rhythm with intermittent ventricular bigeminy post revascularization.  His initial blood pressure was 96/70 with a mean of 83 and the left ventricular pressure was 17 mmHg.  There was no gradient across the aortic valve.  Closing pressure was 97/68 with a mean of 82.,Right heart catheterization with right atrial pressure at 13, right ventricle 31/9, pulmonary artery 33/19 with a mean of 25, and capillary wedge pressure of 19.  Cardiac output was 5.87 by thermal dilution.,CORONARIES:,  On fluoroscopy, there was evidence of previous coronary stent in the left anterior descending artery and circumflex distribution.,A.  Left main coronary:  The left main coronary artery is of good caliber and has no evidence of obstructive lesions.,B.  Left anterior descending artery:  The left anterior descending artery was initially occluded within the previously stented proximal-to-mid segment.  There is minimal collateral flow.,C.  Circumflex:  Circumflex is a nondominant circulation.  It supplies a first obtuse marginal branch on good caliber.  There is an outline of the stent in the midportion, which has mild 30% stenosis.  The rest of the vessel has no significant obstructive lesions.  It also supplies significant collaterals supplying the occluded right coronary artery.,D.  Right coronary artery:  The right coronary artery is a weekly dominant circulation.  The vessel is occluded in intermittent portion and has a minimal collateral flow distally.,ANGIOPLASTY: , The left anterior descending artery was the site of re-canalization by angioplasty and implantation of a drug-eluting stent (Xience 15 mm length deployed at 2.9 mm) final result is good with patency of the left anterior descending artery, good antegrade flow and no evidence of dissection.  The stent was deployed proximal to the bifurcation with a second diagonal branch, which has remained patent.  There is a septal branch overlapped by the stent, which is also patent, although presenting a proximal stenosis.  The distal left anterior descending artery trifurcates with two diagonal branches and apical left anterior descending artery.  There is good antegrade flow and no evidence of distal embolization.,CONCLUSION: , Acute coronary artery syndrome with ST-segment elevation in anterior wall distribution, complicated with primary ventricular malignant arrhythmia and required defibrillation along intubation and ventilatory support.,Previously documented coronary artery disease with remote angioplasty and stents in the left anterior descending artery and circumflex artery.,Acute coronary artery syndrome with ST-segment elevation in anterior wall distribution related to in-stent thrombosis of the left anterior descending artery, successfully re-canalized with angioplasty and a drug-eluting stent.  There is mild-to-moderate disease of the previously stented circumflex and clinic occlusion of the right coronary artery, well collateralized.,Right femoral arterial and venous vascular access.,RECOMMENDATION:,  Integrilin infusion is maintained until tomorrow.  He received aspirin and Plavix per nasogastric tube.  Titrated doses of beta-blockers and ACE inhibitors are initiated.  Additional revascularization therapy will be adjusted according to the clinical evaluation.
ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS:,  Intrauterine pregnancy at term with previous cesarean.,SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS: , Desired sterilization.,DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES,1.  Intrauterine pregnancy at term with previous cesarean.,2.  Desired sterilization.,3.  Status post repeat low transverse cesarean and bilateral tubal ligation.,HISTORY: , The patient is a 35-year-old gravida 2, para 1-0-0-1 with intrauterine pregnancy on 08/30/09.  Pregnancy was uncomplicated.  She opted for a scheduled elective C-section and sterilization without any trial of labor.  All routine screening labs were normal and she underwent a high-resolution ultrasound during pregnancy.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Significant for postpartum depression after her last baby as well as a cesarean.,ALLERGIES:,  SHE HAS SEASONAL ALLERGIES.,MEDICATIONS:,  She is taking vitamins and iron.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,GENERAL:  An alert gravid woman in no distress.,ABDOMEN:  Gravid, nontender, non-irritable, with an infant in the vertex presentation.  Estimated fetal weight was greater than 10 pounds.,HOSPITAL COURSE:  ,On the first hospital day, the patient went to the operating room where repeat low transverse cesarean and tubal ligation were performed under spinal anesthesia with delivery of a viable female infant weighing 7 pounds 10 ounces and Apgars of 9 and 9.  There was normal placenta, normal pelvic anatomy.  There was 600 cc estimated blood loss.  Patient recovered uneventfully from her anesthesia and surgery.  She was able to ambulate and void.  She tolerated regular diet.  She passed flatus.  She was breast-feeding.  Postoperative hematocrit was 31.  On the second postoperative day, the patient was discharged home in satisfactory condition.,DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: , Motrin and Percocet for pain.  Paxil for postpartum depression.  She was instructed to do no lifting, straining, or driving, to put nothing in the vagina and to see me in two weeks or with signs of severe pain, heavy bleeding, fever, or other problems.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Trimalleolar ankle fracture.,2.  Dislocation right ankle.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Trimalleolar ankle fracture.,2.  Dislocation right ankle.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Closed open reduction and internal fixation of right ankle.,ANESTHESIA:  ,Spinal with sedation.,COMPLICATIONS:  ,None.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:  ,Minimal.,TOTAL TOURNIQUET TIME:  ,75 minutes at 325 mmHg.,COMPONENTS: , Synthes small fragment set was used including a 2.5 mm drill bed.  A six hole one-third tibial plate, one 12 mm 3.5 mm cortical screw fully threaded and two 16 mm 3.5 mm cortical fully-threaded screws.  There were two 20 mm 4.0 cancellous screws and one 18 mm 4.0 cancellous screw placed.  There were two 4.0 cancellous partially-threaded screws placed.,GROSS FINDINGS:  ,Include a comminuted fracture involving the lateral malleolus as well as a medial and posterior malleolus fracture as well.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is an 87-year-old Caucasian female who presented to ABCD General Hospital Emergency Room complaining of right ankle pain status post a trip and fall.  The patient noted while walking with a walker, apparently tripped and fell.  The patient had significant comorbidities, seen and evaluated by the Emergency Room Department as well as Department of Orthopedics while in the Emergency Room.  At that time, a closed reduction was performed and she was placed in a Robert-Jones splint.  After complete medical workup and clearance, we elected to take her to the operating room for definitive care.,PROCEDURE:  ,After all potential complications and risks as well as risks and benefits of the above-mentioned procedure was discussed at length with the patient and family, informed consent was obtained.  The upper extremity was then confirmed with the operating surgeon, the patient, the nursing staff and Department of Anesthesia.  The patient was then transferred to preoperative area in the Operative Suite #3 and placed on the operating room table in supine position.  At this time, the Department of Anesthesia administered spinal anesthetic to the patient as well as sedation.  All bony prominences were well padded at this time.  A nonsterile tourniquet was placed on the right upper thigh of the patient.  This was then removed and the right lower extremity was sterilely prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  The right lower extremity was then elevated and exsanguinated using Esmarch and tourniquet was then placed to 325 mmHg and kept up to a total of 75 minutes.  Next, after all bony and soft tissue landmarks were identified, a 6 cm longitudinal incision was made directly over this vestibule on the right ankle.  A sharp dissection was carefully taken down to the level of bone taking care to protect the neurovascular structures.  Once the bone was reached, the fractured site was identified.  The bony ends were then opened and divided of all hematoma as well as excess periosteum within the fracture site.  The wound was copiously irrigated and dried.  Next, the fracture was then reduced in anatomic position.  There was noted to be quite a bit of comminution as well as soft overall status of the bone.  It was held in place with reduction forceps.  A six hole one-third tubular Synthes plate was then selected for instrumentation.  It was contoured using ________ and placed on the lateral aspect of the distal fibula.  Next, the three most proximal holes were sequentially drilled using a 2.5 mm drill bed, depth gauged and then a 3.5 mm fully threaded cortical screw was placed in each.  The most proximal was a 12 mm and the next two were 16 mm in length.  Next, the three most distal holes were sequentially drilled using a 2.5 mm drill bed, depth gauged, and a 4.0 cancellous screw was placed in each hole.  The most distal with a 20 mm and two most proximal were 18 mm in length.  Next the Xi-scan was used to visualize the hardware placement as well as the fracture reduction appeared to be in good anatomic position, all hardware was in good position.  There was no lateralization of the joints.  Attention was then directed towards the medial aspect of the ankle.  Again, after all bony and soft tissue landmarks were identified, a 4 cm longitudinal incision was made directly over the medial malleolus.  Again, the dissection was carefully taken down the level of the fracture site.  The retractors were then placed to protect all neurovascular structures.  Once the fracture site was identified, it was dried of all hematoma as well as excess periosteum.  The fracture site was then displaced and the ankle joint was visualized including the dome of the talus.  There appeared to be some minor degenerative changes of the talus, but no loose bodies.  Next, the wound was copiously irrigated and suctioned dry.  The medial malleolus was placed in reduced position and held in place with a 1.25 mm K-wire.  Next, the 2.5 mm drill bed was then used to sequentially drill holes to full depth and 4.0 cancellous screws were placed in each, each with a 45 mm in length.  These appeared to hold the fracture site securely in an anatomic position.  Again, Xi-scan was brought in to confirm placement of the screws.  They were in good overall position and there was no lateralization of the joint.  At this time, each wound was copiously irrigated and suctioned dry.  The wounds were then closed using #2-0 Vicryl suture in subcutaneous fashion followed by staples on the skin.  A sterile dressing was applied consistent with Adaptic, 4x4s, Kerlix, and Webril.  A Robert-Jones style splint was then placed on the right lower extremity.  This was covered by a 4-inch Depuy dressing.  At this time, the Department of Anesthesia reversed the sedation.  The patient was transferred back to the hospital gurney and to the Postanesthetic Care Unit.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no complications.
REASON FOR CONSULT:,  Organic brain syndrome in the setting of multiple myeloma.,SOURCE OF HISTORY:  ,The patient himself is not able to give a good history.  History has obtained through discussion with Dr. X over the phone and the nurse taking care of the patient despite reviewing the chart on the floor.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 56-year-old male with the history of multiple myeloma, who has been admitted for complains of being dehydrated and was doing good until this morning, was found to be disoriented and confused, was not able to communicate properly, and having difficulty leaving out the words.  Not a very clear history at this time and the patient himself is not able to give any history despite no family member was present in the room.  Neurology consult was called to evaluate any organic brain syndrome in the setting of multiple myeloma.  The patient since the morning has improved, but still not completely back to the baseline.  Even I evaluated the patient previously, hence not very sure about his baseline.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  History of IgG subtype multiple myeloma.,SURGICAL HISTORY:,  Nothing significant.,PSYCHIATRIC HISTORY:  ,Nothing significant.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,No history of any smoking, alcohol or drug abuse.,ALLERGIES: , CODEINE AND FLAGYL.,IMMUNIZATION HISTORY: , Nothing significant.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Unobtainable.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  ,The patient was considered to ask question for systemic review including neurology, psychiatry, sleep, ENT, ophthalmology, pulmonary, cardiology, gastroenterology, genitourinary, hematology, rheumatology, dermatology, allergy/immunology, endocrinology, toxicology, oncology, and found to be positive for the symptoms mentioned in the history of the presenting illness.  The patient himself is not able to give any history only source is the chart.  For details, please review the chart.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure of 97/54, heart rate of 97, respiratory rate of 19, and temperature 98.5.  The patient on supplemental oxygen was FiO2 on 2 L 96%.  Limited physical examination.,HEENT:  Head, normocephalic and atraumatic.  Throat clear.  No discharge from the ear and the nose.  No discoloration of conjunctivae and the sclerae.,NECK:  Supple.  No signs of any meningismus.  Though a limited examination, the patient does appear to have arthritic changes, questioning contracture deformities, as not able to follow the commands to show full range of motion.  No bruit auscultated over the neck and the orbits.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation.,HEART:  Normal heart sounds.,ABDOMEN:  Benign.,EXTREMITIES:  No edema, clubbing or cyanosis.  No rash.  No leptomeningeal or neurocutaneous disorder.,NEUROLOGIC:  Examination is limited.  Mental state examination, the patient is awake, alert, and oriented to himself, not able follow commands, and give a proper history, and still appeared to be confuse and disoriented.  Cranial nerve examination limited, but apparently nonfocal.  Motor examination is very limited except for the grips, which were strong enough.  I was not able to obtain much.  Deep tendon reflexes were not reliable.  Toes equivocal and downgoing.  Sensory examination is not reliable, though intact for painful stimuli with limited examination.  Coordination could not be tested.  Gait could not be tested.,IMPRESSION:,  History of multiple myeloma and altered mental status in multiple myeloma setting.  Rule out brain metastasis including lepto-meningismus, possible transient ischemic attack related to hyperviscosity syndrome or provoked seizure related to ischemia, and delirium related to any electrolyte imbalance or underlying infarction.,PLAN AND RECOMMENDATIONS: , The patient is to continue with current level of management.  I will review the chart before ordering any further testing that may include a CT scan of the brain, if has not been ordered, EEG, urine test, and the latest CBC with diff. to rule out any urinary tract infection or indication of any other seen of infection.  No other intervention at this time.  The patient may be started on aspirin, if it is okay with Dr. X.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:,  Questionable foreign body, right nose.  Belly and back pain.  ,SUBJECTIVE: , Mr. ABC is a 2-year-old boy, who is brought in by parents, stating that the child keeps complaining of belly and back pain.  This does not seem to be slowing him down.  They have not noticed any change in his urine or bowels.  They have not noted him to have any fevers or chills or any other illness.  They state he is otherwise acting normally.  He is eating and drinking well.  He has not had any other acute complaints, although they have noted a foul odor coming from his nose.  Apparently, he was seen here a few weeks ago for a foreign body in the right nose, which was apparently a piece of cotton; this was removed and placed on antibiotics.  His nose got better and then started to become malodorous again.  Mother restarted him on the remainder of the antibiotics and they are also stating that they think there is something still in there.  Otherwise, he has not had any runny nose, earache, no sore throat.  He has not had any cough, congestion.  He has been acting normally.  Eating and drinking okay.  No other significant complaints.  He has not had any pain with bowel movement or urination, nor have they noted him to be more frequently urinating, then again he is still on a diaper.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Otherwise negative.,ALLERGIES: , No allergies.,MEDICATIONS: , No medications other than recent amoxicillin.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , Parents do smoke around the house.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , VITAL SIGNS:  Stable.  He is afebrile.,GENERAL:  This is a well-nourished, well-developed 2-year-old little boy, who is appearing very healthy, normal for his stated age, pleasant, cooperative, in no acute distress, looks very healthy, afebrile and nontoxic in appearance.,HEENT:  TMs, canals are normal.  Left naris normal.  Right naris, there is some foul odor as well as questionable purulent drainage.  Examination of the nose, there was a foreign body noted, which was the appearance of a cotton ball in the right nose, that was obviously infected and malodorous.  This was removed and reexamination of the nose was done and there was absolutely no foreign body left behind or residual.  There was some erythema.  No other purulent drainage noted.  There was some bloody drainage.  This was suctioned and all mucous membranes were visualized and are negative.,NECK:  Without lymphadenopathy.  No other findings.,HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation.,ABDOMEN:  His abdomen is entirely benign, soft, nontender, nondistended.  Bowel sounds active.  No organomegaly or mass noted.,BACK:  Without any findings.  Diaper area normal.,GU:  No rash or infections.  Skin is intact.,ED COURSE: , He also had a P-Bag placed, but did not have any urine.  Therefore, a straight catheter was done, which was done with ease without complication and there was no leukocytes noted within the urine.  There was a little bit of blood from catheterization but otherwise normal urine.  X-ray noted some stool within the vault.  Child is acting normally.  He is jumping up and down on the bed without any significant findings.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Infected foreign body, right naris.,2.  Mild constipation.,PLAN:,  As far as the abdominal pain is concerned, they are to observe for any changes.  Return if worse, follow up with the primary care physician.  The right nose, I will place the child on amoxicillin 125 per 5 mL, 1 teaspoon t.i.d.  Return as needed and observe for more foreign bodies.  I suspect, the child had placed this cotton ball in his nose again after the first episode.
REASON FOR REFERRAL:,  The patient is a 58-year-old African-American right-handed female with 16 years of education who was referred for a neuropsychological evaluation by Dr. X. She is presenting for a second opinion following a recent neuropsychological evaluation that was ordered by her former place of employment that suggested that she was in the "early stages of a likely dementia" and was thereafter terminated from her position as a psychiatric nurse.  A comprehensive evaluation was requested to assess current cognitive functioning and assist with diagnostic decisions and treatment planning.  Note that this evaluation was undertaken as a clinical exam and intended for the purposes of aiding with treatment planning.  The patient was fully informed about the nature of this evaluation and intended use of the results.,RELEVANT BACKGROUND INFORMATION:  ,Historical information was obtained from a review of available medical records and clinical interview with the patient.  A summary of pertinent information is presented below.  Please refer to the patient's medical chart for a more complete history.,HISTORY OF PRESENTING PROBLEM:,  The patient reported that she had worked as a nurse supervisor for Hospital Center for four years.  She was dismissed from this position in September 2009, although she said that she is still under active status technically, but is not able to work.  She continues to receive some compensation through FMLA hours.  She said that she was told that she had three options, to resign, to apply for disability retirement, and she had 90 days to complete the process of disability retirement after which her employers would file for charges in order for her to be dismissed from State Services.  She said that these 90 days are up around the end of November.  She said the reason for her dismissal was performance complaints.  She said that they began "as soon as she arrived and that these were initially related to problems with her taking too much sick time off secondary to diabetes and fibromyalgia management and at one point she needed to obtain a doctor's note for any days off.  She said that her paperwork was often late and that she received discipline for not disciplining her staff frequently enough for tardiness or missed workdays.  She described it as a very chaotic and hectic work environment in which she was often putting in extra time.  She said that since September 2008 she only took two sick days and was never late to work, but that she continued to receive a lot of negative feedback.,In July of this year, she reportedly received a letter from personnel indicating that she was being referred to a state medical doctor because she was unable to perform her job duties and due to excessive sick time.  Following a brief evaluation with this doctor whose records we do not have, she was sent to a neuropsychologist, Dr. Y, Ph.D.  He completed a Comprehensive Independent Medical Evaluation on 08/14/2009.  She said that on 08/27/2009, she returned to see the original doctor who told her that based on that evaluation she was not able to work anymore.  Please note that we do not have copies of any of her work-related correspondence.  The patient never received a copy of the neuropsychological evaluation because she was told that it was "too derogatory."  A copy of that evaluation was provided directly to this examiner for the purpose of this evaluation.  To summarize, the results indicated "diagnostically, The patient presents cognitive deficits involving visual working memory, executive functioning, and motor functioning along with low average intellectual functioning that is significantly below her memory functioning and below expectation based on her occupational and academic history.  This suggests that her intellectual functioning has declined."  It concluded that "results overall suggest early stages of a likely dementia or possibly the effects of diabetes, although her deficits are greater than expected for diabetes-related executive functioning problems and peripheral neuropathyâ€¦  The patient' deficits within the current test battery suggest that she would not be able to safely and effectively perform the duties of a nurse supervisor without help handling documentary demands and some supervision of her visual processing.  The prognosis for improvement is not good, although she might try stimulant medication if compatible with her other.  Following her dismissal, The patient presented to her primary physician, Henry Fein, M.D., who referred her to Dr. X for a second opinion regarding her cognitive deficits.  His neurological examination on 09/23/2009 was unremarkable.  The patient scored 20/30 on the Mini-Mental Status Exam missing one out of three words on recall, but was able to do so with prompting.  A repeat neurocognitive testing was suggested in order to assess for subtle deficits in memory and concentration that were not appreciated on this gross cognitive measure.,IMAGING STUDIES: , MRI of the brain on 09/14/2009 was unremarkable with no evidence of acute intracranial abnormality or abnormal enhancing lesions.  Note that the MRI was done with and without gadolinium contrast.,CURRENT FUNCTIONING:  ,The patient reported that she had experienced some difficulty completing paperwork on time due primarily to the chaoticness of the work environment and the excessive amount of responsibility that was placed upon her.  When asked about changes in cognitive functioning, she denied noticing any decline in problem solving, language, or nonverbal skills.  She also denied any problems with attention and concentration or forgetfulness or memory problems.  She continues to independently perform all activities of daily living.  She is in charge of the household finances, has had no problems paying bills on time, has had no difficulties with driving or accidents, denied any missed appointments and said that no one has provided feedback to her that they have noticed any changes in her cognitive functioning.  She reported that if her children had noticed anything they definitely would have brought it to her attention.  She said that she does not currently have a lawyer and does not intend to return to her previous physician.  She said she has not yet proceeded with the application for disability retirement because she was told that her doctors would have to fill out that paperwork, but they have not claimed that she is disabled and so she is waiting for the doctors at her former workplace to initiate the application.  Other current symptoms include excessive fatigue.  She reported that she was diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome in 1991, but generally symptoms are under better control now, but she still has difficulty secondary to fibromyalgia.  She also reported having fallen approximately five times within the past year.  She said that this typically occurs when she is climbing up steps and is usually related to her right foot "like dragging."  Dr. X's physical examination revealed no appreciable focal peripheral deficits on motor or sensory testing and notes that perhaps these falls are associated with some stiffness and pain of her right hip and knee, which are chronic symptoms from her fibromyalgia and osteoarthritis.  She said that she occasionally bumps into objects, but denied noticing it happening one on any particular part of her body.  Muscle pain secondary to fibromyalgia reportedly occurs in her neck and shoulders down both arms and in her left hip.,OTHER MEDICAL HISTORY: , The patient reported that her birth and development were normal.  She denied any significant medical conditions during childhood.  As mentioned, she now has a history of fibromyalgia.  She also experiences some restriction in the range of motion with her right arm.  MRI of the C-spine 04/02/2009 showed a hemangioma versus degenerative changes at C7 vertebral body and bulging annulus with small central disc protrusion at C6-C7.  MRI of the right shoulder on 06/04/2009 showed small partial tear of the distal infraspinatus tendon and prominent tendinopathy of the distal supraspinatus tendon.  As mentioned, she was diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome in 1991.  She thought that this may actually represent early symptoms of fibromyalgia and said that symptoms are currently under control.  She also has diabetes, high blood pressure, osteoarthritis, tension headaches, GERD, carpal tunnel disease, cholecystectomy in 1976, and ectopic pregnancy in 1974.  Her previous neuropsychological evaluation referred to an outpatient left neck cystectomy in 2007.  She has some difficulty falling asleep, but currently typically obtains approximately seven to eight hours of sleep per night.  She did report some sleep disruption secondary to unusual dreams and thought that she talked to herself and could sometimes hear herself talking in her sleep.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  NovoLog, insulin pump, metformin, metoprolol, amlodipine, Topamax, Lortab, tramadol, amitriptyline, calcium plus vitamin D, fluoxetine, pantoprazole, Naprosyn, fluticasone propionate, and vitamin C.,SUBSTANCE USE: , The patient reported that she rarely drinks alcohol and she denied smoking or using illicit drugs.  She drinks two to four cups of coffee per day.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,The patient was born and raised in North Carolina.  She was the sixth of nine siblings.  Her father was a chef.  He completed third grade and died at 60 due to complications of diabetes.  Her mother is 93 years old.  Her last job was as a janitor.  She completed fourth grade.  She reported that she has no cognitive problems at this time.  Family medical history is significant for diabetes, heart disease, hypertension, thyroid problems, sarcoidosis, and possible multiple sclerosis and depression.  The patient completed a Bachelor of Science in Nursing through State University in 1979.  She denied any history of problems in school such as learning disabilities, attentional problems, difficulty learning to read, failed grades, special help in school or behavioral problems.  She was married for two years.  Her ex-husband died in 1980 from acute pancreatitis secondary to alcohol abuse.  She has two children ages 43 and 30.  Her son whose age is 30 lives nearby and is in consistent contact with her and she is also in frequent contact and has a close relationship with her daughter who lives in New York.  In school, the patient reported obtaining primarily A's and B's.  She said that her strongest subject was math while her worst was spelling, although she reported that her grades were still quite good in spelling.  The patient worked for Hospital Center for four years.  Prior to that, she worked for an outpatient mental health center for 2-1/2 years.  She was reportedly either terminated or laid off and was unsure of the reason for that.  Prior to that, she worked for Walter P. Carter Center reportedly for 21 years.  She has also worked as an OB nurse in the past.  She reported that other than the two instances reported above, she had never been terminated or fired from a job.  In her spare time, the patient enjoys reading, participating in women's groups doing puzzles, playing computer games.,PSYCHIATRIC HISTORY: , The patient reported that she sought psychotherapy on and off between 1991 and 1997 secondary to her chronic fatigue.  She was also taking Prozac during that time.  She then began taking Prozac again when she started working at secondary to stress with the work situation.  She reported a chronic history of mild sadness or depression, which was relatively stable.  When asked about her current psychological experience, she said that she was somewhat sad, but not dwelling on things.  She denied any history of suicidal ideation or homicidal ideation.,TASKS ADMINISTERED:,Clinical Interview,Adult History Questionnaire,Wechsler Test of Adult Reading (WTAR),Mini Mental Status Exam (MMSE),Cognistat Neurobehavioral Cognitive Status Examination,Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS; Form XX),Mattis Dementia Rating Scale, 2nd Edition (DRS-2),Neuropsychological Assessment Battery (NAB),Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Third Edition (WAIS-III),Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV),Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI),Test of Variables of Attention (TOVA),Auditory Consonant Trigrams (ACT),Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT),Ruff 2 & 7 Selective Attention Test,Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT),Multilingual Aphasia Examination, Second Edition (MAE-II), Token Test, Sentence Repetition, Visual Naming, Controlled Oral Word Association, Spelling Test, Aural Comprehension, Reading Comprehension,Boston Naming Test, Second Edition (BNT-2),Animal Naming Test
CHIEF COMPLAINT:,  Neck pain, thoracalgia, low back pain, bilateral lower extremity pain.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  Ms. XYZ is a fairly healthy 69-year-old Richman, Roseburg resident who carries a history of chronic migraine, osteoarthritis, hypothyroidism, hyperlipidemia, and mitral valve prolapse.  She has previously been under the care of Dr. Ninan Matthew in the 1990s and takes Maxalt on a weekly basis and nadolol, omeprazole and amitriptyline for treatment of her migraines, which occur about once a week.  She is under the care of Dr. Bonaparte for hyperlipidemia and hypothyroidism.  She has a long history of back and neck pain with multiple injuries in the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s and 1990s.  In 2000, she developed "sciatica" mostly in her right lower extremity.,She is seen today with no outside imaging, except with MRI of her cervical spine and lumbar spine dated February of 2004.  Her cervical MRI reveals an 8 mm central spinal canal at C6-7, multilevel foraminal stenosis, though her report is not complete as we do not have all the pages.  Her lumbar MRI reveals lumbar spinal stenosis at L4-5 with multilevel facet arthropathy and spondylitic changes.,The patient has essentially three major pain complaints.,Her first pain complaint is one of a long history of axial neck pain without particular radicular symptoms.  She complains of popping, clicking, grinding and occasional stiffness in her neck, as well as occasional periscapular pain and upper trapezius myofascial pain and spasms with occasional cervicalgic headaches.  She has been told by Dr. Megahed in the past that she is not considered a surgical candidate.  She has done physical therapy twice as recently as three years ago for treatment of her symptoms.  She complains of occasional pain and stiffness in both hands, but no particular numbness or tingling.,Her next painful complaint is one of midthoracic pain and thoracalgia features with some right-sided rib pain in a non-dermatomal distribution.  Her rib pain was not preceded by any type of vesicular rash and is reproducible, though is not made worse with coughing.  There is no associated shortness of breath.  She denies inciting trauma and also complains of pain along the costochondral and sternochondral junctions anteriorly.  She denies associated positive or negative sensory findings, chest pain or palpitations, dyspnea, hemoptysis, cough, or sputum production.  Her weight has been stable without any type of constitutional symptoms.,Her next painful complaint is one of axial low back pain with early morning pain and stiffness, which improves somewhat later in the day.  She complains of occasional subjective weakness to the right lower extremity.  Her pain is worse with sitting, standing and is essentially worse in the supine position.  Five years ago, she developed symptoms radiating in an L5-S1 distribution and within the last couple of years, began to develop numbness in the same distribution.  She has noted some subjective atrophy as well of the right calf.  She denies associated bowel or bladder dysfunction, saddle area hypoesthesia, or falls.  She has treated her back symptoms with physical therapy as well.,She is intolerant to any type of antiinflammatory medications as well and has a number of allergies to multiple medications.  She participates in home physical therapy, stretching, hand weights, and stationary bicycling on a daily basis.  Her pain is described as constant, shooting, aching and sharp in nature and is rated as a 4-5/10 for her average and current levels of pain, 6/10 for her worst pain, and 3/10 for her least pain.  Exacerbating factors include recumbency, walking, sleeping, pushing, pulling, bending, stooping, and carrying.  Alleviating factors including sitting, applying heat and ice.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  As per above and includes hyperlipidemia, hypothyroidism, history of migraines, acid reflux symptoms, mitral valve prolapse for which she takes antibiotic prophylaxis.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:,  Cholecystectomy, eye surgery, D&C.,MEDICATIONS:,  Vytorin, Synthroid, Maxalt, nadolol, omeprazole, amitriptyline and 81 mg aspirin.,ALLERGIES:,  Multiple.  All over-the-counter medications.  Toradol, Robaxin, Midrin, Darvocet, Naprosyn, Benadryl, Soma, and erythromycin.,FAMILY HISTORY:,  Family history is remarkable for a remote history of cancer. Family history of heart disease and osteoarthritis.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  The patient is retired.  She is married with three grown children.  Has a high school level education.  Does not smoke, drink, or utilize any illicit substances.,OSWESTRY PAIN INVENTORY:,  Significant impact on every aspect of her quality of life.  She would like to become more functional.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  A thirteen-point review of systems was surveyed including constitutional, HEENT, cardiac, pulmonary, GI, GU, endocrine, integument, hematological, immunological, neurological, musculoskeletal, psychological and rheumatological.  Cardiac, swelling in the extremities, hyperlipidemia, history of palpitation, varicose veins.  Pulmonary review of systems negative.  GI review of systems is positive for irritable bowel and acid reflux symptoms.  Genitourinary, occasional stress urinary incontinence and history of remote hematuria.  She is postmenopausal and on hormone replacement.  Endocrine is positive for a low libido and thyroid disorder.  Integument:  Dry skin, itching and occasional rashes.  Immunologic is essentially negative.  Musculoskeletal:  As per HPI.  HEENT:  Jaw pain, popping, clicking, occasional hoarseness, dysphagia, dry mouth, and prior history of toothache.  Neurological:  As per history of present illness.  Constitutional:  As history of present illness.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,  Weight 180 pounds, temp 97.6, pulse 56, BP 136/72.  The patient walks with a normal gait pattern.  There is no antalgia, spasticity, or ataxia.  She can alternately leg stand without difficulty, as well as tandem walk, stand on the heels and toes without difficulty.  She can flex her lumbar spine and touch the floor with her fingertips.  Lumbar extension and ipsilateral bending provoke her axial back pain.  There is tenderness over the PSIS on the right and no particular pelvic asymmetry.,Head is normocephalic and atraumatic.  Cranial nerves II through XII are grossly intact.  Cervical range of motion is slightly limited in extension, but is otherwise intact to flexion and lateral rotation.  The neck is supple.  The trachea is midline.  The thyroid is not particularly enlarged.  Lungs are clear to auscultation.  Heart has regular rate and rhythm with normal S1, S2.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  The abdomen is nontender, nondistended, without palpable organomegaly, guarding, rebound, or pulsatile masses.  Skin is warm and dry to the touch with no discernible cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  I can radial, dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses.  The nailbeds on her feet have trophic changes.  Brisk capillary refill is evident over both upper extremities.,Musculoskeletal examination reveals medial joint line tenderness of both knees with some varus laxity of the right lower extremity.  She has chronic osteoarthritic changes evident over both hands.  There is mild restriction of range of motion of the right shoulder, but no active impingement signs.,Inspection of the axial skeleton reveals a cervicothoracic head-forward posture with slight internal rotation of the upper shoulders.  Palpation of the axial skeleton reveals mild midline tenderness at the lower lumbar levels one fingerbreadth lateral to the midline.  There is no midline spinous process tenderness over the cervicothoracic regions.  Palpation of the articular pillars is met with mild provocation of pain.  Palpation of the right posterior, posterolateral and lateral borders of the lower ribs is met with mild provocable tenderness.  There is also tenderness at the sternochondral and costochondral junctions of the right, as well as the left bilaterally.  The xiphoid process is not particularly tender.  There is no dermatomal sensory abnormality in the thoracic spine appreciated.  Mild facetal features are evident over the sacral spine with extension and lateral bending at the level of the sacral ala.,Neurological examination of the upper and lower extremities reveals 3/5 reflexes of the biceps, triceps, brachioradialis, and patellar bilaterally.  I cannot elicit S1 reflexes.  There are no long tract signs.  Negative Hoffman's, negative Spurling's, no clonus, and negative Babinski.  Motor examination of the upper, as well as lower extremities appears to be intact throughout.  I may be able to detect a slight hand of atrophy of the right calf muscles, but this is truly unclear and no measurement was made.,SUMMARY OF DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING:,  As per above.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Osteoarthritis.,2.  Cervical spinal stenosis.,3.  Lumbar spinal stenosis.,4.  Lumbar radiculopathy, mostly likely at the right L5-S1 levels.,5.  History of mild spondylolisthesis of the lumbosacral spine at L4-L5 and right sacroiliac joint dysfunction.,6.  Chronic pain syndrome with myofascial pain and spasms of the trapezius and greater complexes.,PLAN:  ,The natural history and course of the disease was discussed in detail with Mr. XYZ.  Greater than 80 minutes were spent facet-to-face at this visit.  I have offered to re-image her cervical and lumbar spine and have included a thoracic MR imaging and rib series, as well as cervicolumbar flexion and extension views to evaluate for mobile segment and/or thoracic fractures.  I do not suspect any sort of intrathoracic comorbidity such as a neoplasm or mass, though this was discussed.  Pending the results of her preliminary studies, this should be ruled out.  I will see her in followup in about two weeks with the results of her scans.
PROCEDURE: , Esophagogastroduodenoscopy with biopsy.,PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , A 1-year-10-month-old with a history of dysphagia to solids.  The procedure was done to rule out organic disease.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Loose lower esophageal sphincter and duodenal ulcers.,CONSENT: , The consent is signed.,MEDICATIONS:  ,The procedure was done under general anesthesia given by Dr. Marino Fernandez.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:,  A history and physical examination were performed, and the procedure, indications, potential complications including bleeding, perforation, the need for surgery, infection, adverse medical reaction, risks, benefits, and alternatives available were explained to the parents, who stated good understanding and consented to go ahead with the procedure.  The opportunity for questions was provided, and informed consent was obtained.  Once the consent was obtained, the patient was sedated with IV medications and intubated by Dr. Fernandez and placed in the supine position.  Then, the tip of the XP-160 videoscope was introduced into the oropharynx, and under direct visualization, we could advance the endoscope into the upper, mid, and lower esophagus.  We did not find any strictures in the upper esophagus, but the patient had the lower esophageal sphincter totally loose.  Then the tip of the endoscope was advanced down into the stomach and guided into the pylorus, and then into the first portion of the duodenum.  We noticed that the patient had several ulcers in the first portion of the duodenum.  Then the tip of the endoscope was advanced down into the second portion of the duodenum, one biopsy was taken there, and then, the tip of the endoscope was brought back to the first portion, and two biopsies were taken there.  Then, the tip of the endoscope was brought back to the antrum, where two biopsies were taken, and one biopsy for CLOtest.  By retroflexed view, at the level of the body of the stomach, I could see that the patient had the lower esophageal sphincter loose.  Finally, the endoscope was unflexed and was brought back to the lower esophagus, where two biopsies were taken.  At the end, air was suctioned from the stomach, and the endoscope was removed out of the patient's mouth.  The patient tolerated the procedure well with no complications.,FINAL IMPRESSION:  ,1.  Duodenal ulcers.,2.  Loose lower esophageal sphincter.,PLAN:,1.  To start omeprazole 20 mg a day.,2.  To review the biopsies.,3.  To return the patient back to clinic in 1 to 2 weeks.
CC: ,Depressed mental status.,HX: ,29y/o female fell down a flight of stairs on 2/20/95, striking the right side of her head. She then walked over to and lay down on a living room couch. She was found there, the next morning, by her boyfriend, poorly responsive and amidst a coffee ground like emesis. She was taken to a local ER and HCT revealed a right supraorbital fracture, right SDH and left SAH. Spine X-rays revealed a T12 vertebral body fracture. There were retinal hemorrhages, OU. She continued to be minimally responsive and was transferred to UIHC for lack of insurance and for neurologic/neurosurgical care.,MEDS:, (on transfer): Dilantin, Zantac, Proventil MDI, Tylenol.,PMH:, 1)pyelonephritis, 2) multiple STD's, 3) Polysubstance Abuse (ETOH, MJ, Amphetamine), 4)G5P4.,FHX:, unknown.,SHX: ,polysubstance abuse. smoked 1 pack per day for 15years.,EXAM: ,BP127/97, HR83, RR25, 37.2C,MS: Minimal to no spontaneous speech. Unresponsive to verbal commands. Lethargic and somnolent. Groaned "yes" inappropriately.,CN: Pupils 4/4 decreasing to 2/2 on exposure to light. VFFTT. Retinal hemorrhages, OU. EOM difficult to assess. Facial movement appeared symmetric. Tongue midline. Corneal and gag responses were intact.,MOTOR: no spontaneous movement. withdrew extremities to noxious stimulation (e.g. deep nail bed pressure).,Sensory: withdrew to noxious stimuli.,Coord/Station/Gait: not tested.,Reflexes: 2+/2+ BUE. 2/2 BLE. Babinski signs were present, bilaterally.,HEENT: Periorbital and upper lid ecchymoses about the right eye. Scleral hemorrhage, OD.,GEN EXAM: mild bruising of the extremities.,COURSE: ,2/27/95 HCT revealed a small liner high attenuation area lateral to the right parietal lobe with subtle increased attenuation of the tentorium cerebelli. These findings were felt to represent a right subdural hematoma and possible subarachnoid hemorrhage.,2/28/95 brain MRI revealed: 1)a small right-sided SDH, 2) Abnormal signal in the right occipital lobe with effacement of the gyri and sulci in the right PCA division most likely representing ischemic/vascular injury, 3)abnormal signal within the right basal ganglia/caudate nucleus consistent with ischemia, 4) abnormal signal in the uncal portion of the right frontal lobe consistent with contusion, 5) small parenchymal hemorrhage in the inferior anterior right temporal lobe, and 6) opacification of the right maxillary sinus.,EEG, 2/28/95, was abnormal with occasional sharp transients in the left temporal region, and irregular (more or less continuous) right greater than left delta slow waves and decreased background activity in the right hemisphere: the findings were consistent with focal pathology on the right, seizure tendency in the left temporal region, and bilateral cerebral dysfunction. By the time of discharge, 4/17/95, she was verbalizing one or two words and required assistance with feeding and ambulation. She could not function independently.
OPERATION PERFORMED:,  Ligament reconstruction and tendon interposition arthroplasty of right wrist.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , With the patient under adequate anesthesia, the right upper extremity was prepped and draped in a sterile manner.,Attention was turned to the base of the thumb where a longitudinal incision was made over the anatomic snuffbox and extended out onto the carpometacarpal joint.  Using blunt dissection radial sensory nerve was dissected and retracted out of the operative field.  Further blunt dissection exposed the radial artery, which was dissected and retracted off the trapezium.  An incision was then made across the scaphotrapezial joint distally onto the trapezium and out onto the carpometacarpal joint.  Sharp dissection exposed the trapezium, which was then morselized and removed in toto with care taken to protect the underlying flexor carpi radialis tendon.  The radial beak of the trapezoid was then osteotomized off the head of the scaphoid.  The proximal metacarpal was then fenestrated with a 4.5-mm drill bit.  Four fingers proximal to the flexion crease of the wrist a small incision was made over the FCR tendon and blunt dissection delivered the FCR tendon into this incision.  The FCR tendon was divided and this incision was closed with 4-0 nylon sutures.  Attention was returned to the trapezial wound where longitudinal traction on the FCR tendon delivered the FCR tendon into the wound.,The FCR tendon was then threaded through the fenestration in the metacarpal.  A bone anchor was then placed distal to the metacarpal fenestration.  The FCR tendon was then pulled distally and the metacarpal reduced to an anatomic position.  The FCR tendon was then sutured to the metacarpal using the previously placed bone anchor.  Remaining FCR tendon was then anchovied and placed into the scaphotrapezoidal and trapezial defect.  The MP joint was brought into extension and the capsule closed using interrupted 3-0 Tycron sutures.,Attention was turned to the MCP joint where the MP joint was brought in to 15 degrees of flexion and pinned with a single 0.035 Kirschner wire.  The pin was cut at the level of the skin.,All incisions were closed with running 3-0 Prolene subcuticular stitch.,Sterile dressings were then applied.  The tourniquet was deflated.  The patient was awakened from anesthesia and returned to the recovery room in satisfactory condition having tolerated the procedure well.
HISTORY:,  Reason for ICU followup today is acute anemia secondary to upper GI bleeding with melena with dropping hemoglobin from 11 to 8, status post transfusion of 2 units PRBCs with EGD performed earlier today by Dr. X of Gastroenterology confirming diagnosis of ulcerative esophagitis, also for continuing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation with productive cough, infection and shortness of breath.  Please see dictated ICU transfer note yesterday detailing the need for emergent transfer transfusion and EGD in this patient.  Over the last 24 hours, the patient has received 2 units of packed red blood cells and his hematocrit and hemoglobin have returned to their baseline of approximately 11 appropriate for hemoglobin value.  He also underwent EGD earlier today with Dr. X.  I have discussed the case with him at length earlier this afternoon and the patient had symptoms of ulcerative esophagitis with no active bleeding.  Dr. X recommended to increase the doses of his proton pump inhibitor and to avoid NSAIDs in the future.  The patient today complains that he is still having issues with shortness of breath and wheezing and productive cough, now producing yellow-brown sputum with increasing frequency, but he has had no further episodes of melena since transfer to the ICU.  He is also complaining of some laryngitis and some pharyngitis, but is denying any abdominal complaints, nausea, or diarrhea.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure is 100/54, heart rate 80 and temperature 98.8.  Is and Os negative fluid balance of 1.4 liters in the last 24 hours.,GENERAL:  This is a somnolent 68-year-old male, who arouses to voice, wakes up, seems to have good appetite, has continuing cough.  Pallor is improved.,EYES:  Conjunctivae are now pink.,ENT:  Oropharynx is clear.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Reveals distant heart tones with regular rate and rhythm.,LUNGS:  Have coarse breath sounds with wheezes, rhonchi, and soft crackles in the bases.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender with no organomegaly appreciated.,EXTREMITIES:  Showed no clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  Capillary refill time is now normal in the fingertips.,NEUROLOGICAL:  Cranial nerves II through XII are grossly intact with no focal neurological deficits.,LABORATORY DATA:,  Laboratories drawn at 1449 today, WBC 10, hemoglobin and hematocrit 11.5 and 33.1, and platelets 288,000.  This is up from 8.6 and 24.7.  Platelets are stable.  Sodium is 134, potassium 4.0, chloride 101, bicarb 26, BUN 19, creatinine 1.0, glucose 73, calcium 8.4, INR 0.96, iron 13%, saturations 4%, TIBC 312, TSH 0.74, CEA elevated at 8.6, ferritin 27.5 and occult blood positive.  EGD, final results pending per Dr. X's note and conversation with me earlier, ulcerative esophagitis without signs of active bleeding at this time.,IMPRESSION/PLAN,1.  Melena secondary to ulcerative esophagitis.  We will continue to monitor the patient overnight to ensure there is no further bleeding.  If there are no further episodes of melena and hemoglobin is stable or unchanged in the morning, the patient will be transferred back to medical floor for continuing treatment of his chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation.,2.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation.  The patient is doing well, taking PO.  We will continue him on his oral Omnicef and azithromycin and continuing breathing treatments.  We will add guaifenesin and N-acetyl-cysteine in a hope to mobilize some of his secretions.  This does appear to be improving.  His white count is normalized and I am hopeful we can discharge him on oral antibiotics within the next 24 to 48 hours if there are no further complications.,3.  Elevated CEA.  The patient will need colonoscopy on an outpatient basis.  He has refused this today.  We would like to encourage him to do so.  Of note, the patient when he came in was on bloodless protocol, but with urging did accept the transfusion.  Similarly, I am hoping that with proper counseling, the patient will consent to further examination with colonoscopy given his guaiac-positive status, elevated CEA and risk factors.,4.  Anemia, normochromic normocytic with low total iron binding capacity.  This appears to be anemia of chronic disease.  However, this is likely some iron deficiency superimposed on top of this given his recent bleeding, with consider iron, vitamin C, folate and B12 supplementation and discharge given his history of alcoholic malnutrition and recent gastrointestinal bleeding.  Total critical care time spent today discussing the case with Dr. X, examining the patient, reviewing laboratory trends, adjusting medications and counseling the patient in excess is 35 minutes.
PROCEDURE:, Sleep study.,CLINICAL INFORMATION:, This patient is a 56-year-old gentleman who had symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea with snoring, hypertension. The test was done 01/24/06. The patient weighed 191 pounds, five feet, seven inches tall.,SLEEP QUESTIONNAIRE:, According to the patient's own estimate, the patient took about 15 minutes to fall asleep, slept for six and a half hours, did have some dreams. Did not wake up and the sleep was less refreshing. He was sleepy in the morning.,STUDY PROTOCOL:, An all night polysomnogram was recorded with a Compumedics E Series digital polysomnograph. After the scalp was prepared, Ag/AgCl electrodes were applied to the scalp according to the International 10-20 System. EEG was monitored from C4-A1, C3-A2, O2-A1 and O2-A1. EOG and EMG were continuously monitored by electrodes placed at the outer canthi and chin respectively. Nasal and oral airflow were monitored using a triple port Thermistor. Respiratory effort was measured by piezoelectric technology employing an abdominal and thoracic belt. Blood oxygen saturation was continuously monitored by pulse oximetry. Heart rate and rhythm were monitored by surface electrocardiography. Anterior tibialis EMG was studied by using surface mounted electrodes placed 5 cm apart on both legs. Body position and snoring level were also monitored.,TECHNICAL QUALITY OF STUDY:, Good.,ELECTROPHYSIOLOGIC MEASUREMENTS:, Total recording time 406 minutes, total sleep time 365 minutes, sleep latency 25.5 minutes, REM latency 49 minutes, _____ 90%, sleep latency measured 86%. _____ period was obtained. The patient spent 10% of the time awake in bed.,Stage I: 3.8,Stage II: 50.5,Stage III: 14%,Stage REM: 21.7%,The patient had relatively good sleep architecture, except for excessive waking.,RESPIRATORY MEASUREMENTS:, Total apnea/hypopnea 75, age index 12.3 per hour. REM age index 15 per hour. Total arousal 101, arousal index 15.6 per hour. Oxygen desaturation was down to 88%. Longest event 35 second hypopnea with an FiO2 of 94%. Total limb movements 92, PRM index 15.1 per hour. PRM arousal index 8.9 per hour.,ELECTROCARDIOGRAPHIC OBSERVATIONS:, Heart rate while asleep 60 to 64 per minute, while awake 70 to 78 per minute.,CONCLUSIONS:, Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome with moderately loud snoring and significant apnea/hypopnea index.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,AXIS B: Overnight polysomnography.,AXIS C: Hypertension.,The patient should return for nasal CPAP titration. Sleep apnea if not treated, may lead to chronic hypertension, which may have cardiovascular consequences. Excessive daytime sleepiness, dysfunction and memory loss may also occur.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:  ,Leaking nephrostomy tube.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , This 61-year-old male was referred in today secondary to having urine leaked around the ostomy site for his right sided nephrostomy tube.  The leaking began this a.m.  The patient denies any pain, does not have fever and has no other problems or complaints.  The patient had bilateral nephrostomy tubes placed one month ago secondary to his prostate cancer metastasizing and causing bilateral ureteral obstructions that were severe enough to cause acute renal failure.  The patient states he feels like his usual self and has no other problems or concerns.  The patient denies any fever or chills.  No nausea or vomiting.  No flank pain, no abdominal pain, no chest pain, no shortness of breath, no swelling to the legs.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , Review of systems otherwise negative and noncontributory.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Metastatic prostate cancer, anemia, hypertension.,MEDICATIONS: , Medication reconciliation sheet has been reviewed on the nurses' note.,ALLERGIES: , NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , The patient is a nonsmoker.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  ,VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 97.7 oral, blood pressure 150/85, pulse is 91, respirations 16, oxygen saturation 97% on room air and interpreted as normal.  CONSTITUTIONAL:  The patient is well nourished, well developed, appears to be healthy, calm, comfortable, no acute distress, looks well.  HEENT:  Eyes are normal with clear sclerae and cornea.  NECK:  Supple, full range of motion.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  Heart has regular rate and rhythm without murmur, rub or gallop.  Peripheral pulses are +2.  No dependent edema.  RESPIRATIONS:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No shortness of breath.  No wheezes, rales or rhonchi.  Good air movement bilaterally.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  Abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended.  No rebound or guarding.  Normal benign abdominal exam.  MUSCULOSKELETAL:  The patient has nontender back and flank.  No abnormalities noted to the back other than the bilateral nephrostomy tubes.  The nephrostomy tube left has no abnormalities, no sign of infection.  No leaking of urine, nontender, nephrostomy tube on the right has a damp dressing, which has a small amount of urine soaked into it.  There is no obvious active leak from the ostomy site.  No sign of infection.  No erythema, swelling or tenderness.  The collection bag is full of clear urine.  The patient has no abnormalities on his legs.  SKIN:  No rashes or lesions.  No sign of infection.  NEUROLOGIC:  Motor and sensory are intact to the extremities.  The patient has normal ambulation, normal speech.  PSYCHIATRIC:  Alert and oriented x4.  Normal mood and affect.  HEMATOLOGIC AND LYMPHATIC:  No bleeding or bruising.,EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT COURSE:,  Reviewed the patient's admission record from one month ago when he was admitted for the placement of the nephrostomy tubes, both Dr. X and Dr. Y have been consulted and both had recommended nephrostomy tubes, there was not the name mentioned as to who placed the nephrostomy tubes.  There was no consultation dictated for this and no name was mentioned in the discharge summary, paged Dr. X as this was the only name that the patient could remember that might have been involved with the placement of the nephrostomy tubes.  Dr. A responded to the page and recommended __________ off a BMP and discussing it with Dr. B, the radiologist as he recalled that this was the physician who placed the nephrostomy tubes, paged Dr. X and received a call back from Dr. X.  Dr. X stated that he would have somebody get in touch with us about scheduling a time for which they will change out the nephrostomy tube to a larger and check a nephrogram at that time that came down and stated that they would do it at 10 a.m. tomorrow.  This was discussed with the patient and instructions to return to the hospital at 10 a.m. to have this tube changed out by Dr. X was explained and understood.,DIAGNOSES:,1.  WEAK NEPHROSTOMY SITE FOR THE RIGHT NEPHROSTOMY TUBE.,2.  PROSTATE CANCER, METASTATIC.,3.  URETERAL OBSTRUCTION.,The patient on discharge is stable and dispositioned to home.,PLAN: , We will have the patient return to the hospital tomorrow at 10 a.m. for the replacement of his right nephrostomy tube by Dr. X.  The patient was asked to return in the emergency room sooner if he should develop any new problems or concerns.
EXAM:,  CT Abdomen & Pelvis W&WO Contrast, ,REASON FOR EXAM: , Status post aortobiiliac graft repair. , ,TECHNIQUE: , 5 mm spiral thick spiral CT scanning was performed through the entire abdomen and pelvis utilizing intravenous dynamic bolus contrast enhancement.  No oral or rectal contrast was utilized.  Comparison is made with the prior CT abdomen and pelvis dated 10/20/05.  There has been no significant change in size of the abdominal aortic aneurysm centered roughly at the renal artery origin level which has dimensions of 3.7 cm transversely x 3.4 AP.  Just below this level is the top of the endoluminal graft repair with numerous surrounding surgical clips.  The size of the native aneurysm component at this level is stable at 5.5 cm in diameter with mural thrombus surrounding the enhancing endolumen.  There is no abnormal entrance of contrast agent into the mural thrombus to indicate an endoluminal leak.  Further distally, there is extension of the graft into both proximal common iliac arteries without evidence for endoluminal leak at this level either.  No exoluminal leakage is identified at any level.  There is no retroperitoneal hematoma present.  The findings are unchanged from the prior exam.  ,The liver, spleen, pancreas, adrenals and right kidney are unremarkable with moderate diffuse atrophy of the pancreas present.  There is advanced atrophy of the left kidney.  No hydronephrosis is present.  No acute findings are identified elsewhere in the abdomen. ,The lung bases are clear. ,Concerning the remainder of the pelvis, no acute pathology is identified.  There is prominent streak artifact from the left total hip replacement.  There is diffuse moderate sigmoid diverticulosis without evidence for diverticulitis.  The bladder grossly appears normal.  A hysterectomy has been performed.  ,IMPRESSION:,1.  No complications identified regarding endoluminal aortoiliac graft repair as described.  The findings are stable compared to the study of 10/20/04.  ,2.  Stable mild aneurysm of aortic aneurysm, centered roughly at renal artery level.  ,3.  No other acute findings noted. ,4.  Advanced left renal atrophy.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  This 57-year-old black female was seen in my office on Month DD, YYYY for further evaluation and management of hypertension.  Patient has severe backache secondary to disc herniation.  Patient has seen an orthopedic doctor and is scheduled for surgery.  Patient also came to my office for surgical clearance.  Patient had cardiac cath approximately four years ago, which was essentially normal.  Patient is documented to have morbid obesity and obstructive sleep apnea syndrome.  Patient does not use a CPAP mask.  Her exercise tolerance is eight to ten feet for shortness of breath.  Patient also has two-pillow orthopnea.  She has intermittent pedal edema.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  ,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure is 135/70.  Respirations 18 per minute.  Heart rate 70 beats per minute.  Weight 258 pounds.,HEENT:  Head normocephalic.  Eyes, no evidence of anemia or jaundice.  Oral hygiene is good. ,NECK:  Supple.  JVP is flat.  Carotid upstroke is good. ,LUNGS:  Clear. ,CARDIOVASCULAR:  There is no murmur or gallop heard over the precordium. ,ABDOMEN:  Soft.  There is no hepatosplenomegaly. ,EXTREMITIES:  The patient has no pedal edema.  ,MEDICATIONS:  ,1.  BuSpar 50 mg daily.,2.  Diovan 320/12.5 daily.,3.  Lotrel 10/20 daily.,4.  Zetia 10 mg daily.,5.  Ambien 10 mg at bedtime.,6.  Fosamax 70 mg weekly.,DIAGNOSES:,1.  Controlled hypertension.,2.  Morbid obesity.,3.  Osteoarthritis.,4.  Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome.,5.  Normal coronary arteriogram.,6.  Severe backache.,PLAN:,1.  Echocardiogram, stress test.,2  Routine blood tests.,3.  Sleep apnea study.,4.  Patient will be seen again in my office in two weeks.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Critical left carotid stenosis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Critical left carotid stenosis.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,  Left carotid endarterectomy with endovascular patch angioplasty.,ANESTHESIA:,  Cervical block.,GROSS FINDINGS:  ,The patient is a 57-year-old black female with chronic renal failure.  She does have known critical carotid artery stenosis.  She wishes to undergo bilateral carotid endarterectomy, however, it was felt necessary by Dr. X to perform cardiac catheterization.  She was admitted to the hospital yesterday with chest pain.  She has been considered for coronary artery bypass grafting.  I have been asked to address the carotid stenosis, left being more severe, this was addressed first.  Intraoperatively, an atherosclerotic plaque was noted in the common carotid artery extending into the internal carotid artery.  The internal carotid artery is quite torturous.  The external carotid artery was occluded at its origin.  When the endarterectomy was performed, the external carotid artery back-bled nicely.  The internal carotid artery had good backflow bleeding noted.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: , The patient was taken to the OR suite and placed in the supine position.  Then neck, shoulder, and chest wall were prepped and draped in appropriate manner.  Longitudinal incision was created along the anterior border of the left sternocleidal mastoid muscle and this was taken through the subcutaneous tissue and platysmal muscle utilizing electrocautery.,Utilizing both blunt and sharp dissections, the common carotid artery, the internal carotid artery beyond the atherosclerotic back, the external carotid artery, and the superior thyroid artery were isolated and encircled with a umbilical tape.  During the dissection, facial veins were ligated with #4-0 silk ligature prior to dividing them.  Also during the dissection, ansa cervicalis, hypoglossal, and vagus nerve identified and preserved.  There was some inflammation above the carotid bulb, but this was not problematic.,The patient had been administered 5000 units of aqueous heparin after allowing adequate circulating time.  The internal carotid artery is controlled with Heifitz clip followed by the external carotid artery and the superior thyroid artery being controlled with Heifitz clips.  The common carotid artery was controlled with profunda clamp.  The patient remained neurologically intact.  A longitudinal arteriotomy was created along the posterior lateral border of the common carotid artery.  This was extended across the lobe on to the internal carotid artery.  An endarterectomy was then performed.  The ________ intima was cleared of all debris and the ________ was flushed with copious amounts of heparinized saline.  As mentioned before, the internal carotid artery is quite torturous.  This was shortened by imbricating the internal carotid artery with horizontal mattress stitches of #7-0 Prolene suture.,The wound was copiously irrigated, rather an endovascular patch was then brought on to the field.  This was cut to shape and length.  This was sutured in place with continuous running #6-0 Prolene suture.  The suture line began at both sites.  The suture was tied in the center along the anterior and posterior walls.  Prior to completing the closure, the common carotid artery was flushed.  The internal carotid artery permitted to back bleed.  The clamp was placed after completing the closure.  The clamp was placed at the origin of the internal carotid artery.  Flow was first directed into the external carotid artery then into the internal carotid artery.  The patient remained neurologically intact.  Topical ________ Gelfoam was utilized.  Of note, during the endarterectomy, the patient did receive an additional 7000 units of aqueous heparin.  The wound was copiously irrigated with antibiotic solution.  Sponge, needle, and all counts were correct.  All surgical sites were inspected.  Good hemostasis noted.  The incision was closed in layers with absorbable suture.  Stainless steel staples approximated skin.  Sterile dressings were applied.  The patient tolerated the procedure well, grossly neurologically intact.
EXAM:,MRI LEFT SHOULDER,CLINICAL:,This is a 69-year-old male with pain in the shoulder. Evaluate for rotator cuff tear.,FINDINGS:,Examination was performed on 9/1/05.,There is marked supraspinatus tendinosis and extensive tearing of the substance of the tendon and articular surface, extending into the myotendinous junction as well. There is still a small rim of tendon along the bursal surface, although there may be a small tear at the level of the rotator interval. There is no retracted tendon or muscular atrophy (series #6 images #6-17).,Normal infraspinatus tendon.,There is subscapularis tendinosis with fraying and partial tearing of the superior most fibers extending to the level of the rotator interval (series #9 images #8-13; series #3 images #8-14). There is no complete tear, gap or fiber retraction and there is no muscular atrophy.,There is tendinosis and superficial tearing of the long biceps tendon within the bicipital groove, and there is high grade (near complete) partial tearing of the intracapsular portion of the tendon. The biceps anchor is intact. There are degenerative changes in the greater tuberosity of the humerus but there is no fracture or subluxation.,There is degeneration of the superior labrum and there is a small nondisplaced tear in the posterior superior labrum at the one to two oâ€™clock position (series #6 images #12-14; series #3 images #8-10; series #9 images #5-8). There is a small sublabral foramen at the eleven oâ€™clock position (series #9 image #6). There is no osseous Bankart lesion.,Normal superior, middle and inferior glenohumeral ligaments.,There is hypertrophic osteoarthropathy of the acromioclavicular joint with narrowing of the subacromial space and flattening of the superior surface of the supraspinatus musculotendinous junction, which in the appropriate clinical setting is an MRI manifestation of an impinging lesion (series #8 images #3-12).,Normal coracoacromial, coracohumeral and coracoclavicular ligaments. There is minimal fluid within the glenohumeral joint. There is no atrophy of the deltoid muscle.,IMPRESSION:,  There is extensive supraspinatus tendinosis and partial tearing as described. There is no retracted tendon or muscular atrophy, but there may be a small tear along the anterior edge of the tendon at the level of the rotator interval, and this associated partial tearing of the superior most fibers of the subscapularis tendon.  There is also a high-grade partial tear of the long biceps tendon as it courses under the transverse humeral ligament. There is no evidence of a complete tear or retracted tendon. Small nondisplaced posterior superior labral tear. Outlet narrowing from the acromioclavicular joint, which in the appropriate clinical setting is an MRI manifestation of an impinging lesion.
PROCEDURE: , Primary right shoulder arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with subacromial decompression.,PATIENT PROFILE:,  This is a 42-year-old female.  Refer to note in patient chart for documentation of history and physical.  Due to the nature of the patient's increasing pain, surgery is recommended.  The alternatives, risks and benefits of surgery were discussed with the patient.  The patient verbalized understanding of the risks as well as the alternatives to surgery.  The patient wished to proceed with operative intervention.  A signed and witnessed informed consent was placed on the chart.  Prior to initiation of the procedure, patient identification and proposed procedure were verified by the surgeon in the pre-op area, and the operative site was marked by the patient and verified by the surgeon.,PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: , Acute complete tear of the supraspinatus, Shoulder impingement syndrome.,POST-OP DIAGNOSIS:,  Acute complete tear of the supraspinatus, Shoulder impingement syndrome.,ANESTHESIA: , General - Endotracheal.,FINDINGS:,ACROMION:,1.  There was a medium-sized (5 - 10 mm) anterior acromial spur.,2.  The subacromial bursa was inflamed.,3.  The subacromial bursa was thickened.,4.  There was thickening of the coracoacromial ligament.,LIGAMENTS / CAPSULE: , Joint capsule within normal limits.,LABRUM: , The labrum is within normal limits.,ROTATOR CUFF: , Full thickness tear of the supraspinatus tendon, 5 mm anterior to posterior, by 10 mm medial to lateral.  Muscles and Tendons:  The biceps tendon is within normal limits.,JOINT:,  Normal appearance of the glenoid and humeral surfaces.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:,PATIENT POSITIONING: , Following induction of anesthesia, the patient was placed in the beach-chair position on the standard operating table.  All body parts were well padded and protected to make sure there were no pressure points.  Subsequently, the surgical area was prepped and draped in the appropriate sterile fashion with Betadine.,INCISION TYPE:,1.  Scope Ports:  Anterior Portal.,2.  Scope Ports:  Posterior Portal.,3.  Scope Ports:  Accessory Anterior Portal.,INSTRUMENTS AND METHODS:,1.  The arthroscope and instruments were introduced into the shoulder joint through the arthroscopic portals.,2.  The subacromial space and bursa, biceps tendon, coracoacromial and glenohumeral ligaments, biceps tendon, rotator cuff, supraspinatus, subscapularis, infraspinatus, teres minor, capsulo-labral complex, capsule, glenoid labrum, humeral head, and glenoid, including the inner and outer surfaces of the rotator cuff, were visualized and probed.,3.  The subacromial bursa, subacromial soft tissues and frayed rotator cuff tissue were resected and debrided using a motorized resector and 4.5 Synovial Resector.,4.  The anterior portion of the acromion and acromial spur were resected with the 5.5 acromionizer burr.  Approximately 5 mm of bone was removed.  The coracoacromial ligament was released with the bony resection.  The shoulder joint was thoroughly irrigated.,5.  The edges of the cuff tissue were prepared, prior to the fixation, using the motorized resector.,6.  The supraspinatus tendon was reattached and sutured using the arthroscopic knot pusher and Mitek knotless anchor system and curved pointed suture passer and large bore cannula (to pass the sutures).  The repair was accomplished in a side-to-side and a tendon-to-bone fashion using three double loaded Mitek G IV suture anchors with 1 PDS suture.,7.  The repair was stable to palpation with the probe and watertight.,8.  The arthroscope and instruments were removed from the shoulder.,PATHOLOGY SPECIMEN: , No pathology specimens.,WOUND CLOSURE:,  The joint was thoroughly irrigated with 7 L of sterile saline.  The portal sites were infiltrated with 1% Xylocaine.  The skin was closed with 4-0 Vicryl using interrupted subcuticular technique.,DRAINS / DRESSING:,  Applied sterile dressing including gauze, iodoform gauze and Elastoplast.,SPONGE / INSTRUMENT / NEEDLE COUNTS:,  Final counts were correct.
DIAGNOSIS: , Status post brain tumor with removal.,SUBJECTIVE:  ,The patient is a 64-year-old female with previous medical history of breast cancer that has metastasized to her lung, liver, spleen, and brain, status post radiation therapy.  The patient stated that on 10/24/08 she had a brain tumor removed with subsequent left-sided weakness.  The patient was readmitted to ABC Hospital on 12/05/08 and was found to have massive swelling in the brain and a second surgery was performed to reduce the swelling.  The patient remained at the acute rehab at ABC until she was discharged home on 01/05/09.  The patient did receive skilled speech therapy while in the acute rehab, which focused on higher level cognitive and linguistic skills such as attention, memory, mental flexibility, and improvement of her executive function.  The patient also complains of difficulty with word retrieval and slurring of speech.  The patient denies any difficulty with swallowing at this time.,OBJECTIVE:  ,Portions of the cognitive linguistic quick test was administered.  An oral mechanism exam was performed.  A motor speech protocol was completed.,The cognitive linguistic subtests of recalling personal facts, symbol cancellation, confrontational naming, clock drawing, story retelling, generative naming, design and memory, and completion of mazes was administered.,The patient was 100% accurate with recalling personal facts, completion of the symbol cancellation tasks, and with confrontational naming.  She had no difficulty with the clock drawing task; however, she has considerable hand tremors, which makes writing difficult.  In the storytelling task, she scored within normal limits.  She was also within normal limits for generative naming.  She did have difficulty with the design, memory, and mazes subtests.  She was unable to complete the second maze during the allotted time.  The design generation subtest was also completed.  She was able to draw four unique designs, and toward the end of the tasks was no longer able to recall the stated direction.,ORAL MECHANISM EXAMINATION:,  The patient has mild left facial droop with decreased nasolabial fold.  Tongue is at midline, and lingual range of motion and strength are within functional limit.  The patient does complain of biting her tongue on occasion, but denied biting the inside of her cheeks.  Her AMRs are judged to be within functional limit.  Her rate of speech is decreased with a monotonous vocal quality.  The decreased rate may be a compensation for decreased word retrieval ability.  The patient's speech is judged to be 100% intelligible without background noise.,DIAGNOSTIC IMPRESSION:  ,The patient has mild cognitive linguistic deficits in the areas of higher level cognitive function seen in mental flexibility, memory, and executive function.,PLAN OF CARE:,  Outpatient skilled speech therapy two times a week for four weeks to include cognitive linguistic treatment.,SHORT-TERM GOALS (THREE WEEKS):,1.  The patient will complete deductive reasoning and mental flexibility tasks with greater than 90% accuracy, independently.,2.  The patient will complete perspective memory test with 100% accuracy using compensatory strategy.,3.  The patient will complete visual perceptual activities, which focus on scanning, flexibility, and problem solving with greater than 90% accuracy with minimal cueing.,4.  The patient will listen to and/or read a lengthy narrative and be able to recall at least 6 details after a 15-minute delay, independently.,PATIENT'S GOAL:  ,To improve functional independence and cognitive abilities.,LONG-TERM GOAL (FOUR WEEKS):  ,Functional cognitive linguistic abilities to improve safety and independence at home and to decrease burden of care on caregiver.,
CHILD PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  Birth weight is ** grams, length **, occipitofrontal circumference **.  Character of cry was lusty.,GENERAL APPEARANCE:  Well.,BREATHING:  Unlabored.,SKIN:  Clear.  No cyanosis, pallor, or icterus.  Subcutaneous tissue is ample.,HEAD:  Normal.  Fontanelles are soft and flat.  Sutures are opposed.,EYES:  Normal with red reflex x2.,EARS:  Patent.  Normal pinnae, canals, TMs.,NOSE:  Patent nares.,MOUTH:  No cleft.,THROAT:  Clear.,NECK:  No masses.,CHEST:  Normal clavicles.,LUNGS:  Clear bilaterally.,HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, flat.  No hepatosplenomegaly.  The cord is three vessel.,GENITALIA:  Normal ** genitalia **with testes descended bilaterally.,ANUS:  Patent.,SPINE:  Straight and without deformity.,EXTREMITIES:  Equal movements.,MUSCLE TONE:  Good.,REFLEXES:  Moro, grasp, and suck are normal.,HIPS:  No click or clunk.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Esophageal foreign body.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Esophageal foreign body, US penny.,PROCEDURE: , Esophagoscopy with foreign body removal.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,INDICATIONS: , The patient is a 17-month-old baby girl with biliary atresia, who had a delayed diagnosis and a late attempted Kasai portoenterostomy, which failed.  The patient has progressive cholestatic jaundice and is on the liver transplant list at ABCD.  The patient is fed by mouth and also with nasogastric enteral feeding supplements.  She has had an __________ cough and relatively disinterested in oral intake for the past month.  She was recently in the GI Clinic and an x-ray was ordered to check her tube placement and an incidental finding of a coin in the proximal esophagus was noted.  Based on the history, it is quite possible this coin has been there close to a month.  She is brought to the operating room now for attempted removal.  I met with the parents and talked to them at length about the procedure and the increased risk in a child with a coin that has been in for a prolonged period of time.  Hopefully, there will be no coin migration or significant irrigation that would require prolonged hospitalization.,OPERATIVE FINDINGS: , The patient had a penny lodged in the proximal esophagus in the typical location.  There was no evidence of external migration and surrounding irritation was noted, but did not appear to be excessive.  The coin actually came out with relative ease after which endoscopically identified.,DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION: , The patient came to the operating room and had induction of general anesthesia.  She was slow to respond to the usual propofol and other inducing agents and may be has some difficulty with tolerance or __________ tolerance to these medications.  After her endotracheal tube was placed and securely taped to the left side of her mouth, I positioned the patient with a prominent shoulder roll and neck hyperextension and then used the laryngoscope to elevate the tiny glottic mechanism.  A rigid esophagoscope was then inserted into the proximal esophagus, and the scope was gradually advanced with the lumen directly in frontal view.  This was facilitated by the nasoenteric feeding tube that was in place, which I followed carefully until the edge of the coin could be seen.  At this location, there was quite a bit of surrounding mucosal inflammation, but the coin edge could be clearly seen and was secured with the coin grasping forceps.  I then withdrew the scope, forceps, and the coin as one unit, and it was easily retrieved.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no intraoperative complications.  There was only one single coin noted, and she was awakened and taken to the recovery room in good condition.
REASON FOR CONSULTATION: , Atrial fibrillation and shortness of breath.,HISTORY OF PRESENTING ILLNESS: , The patient is an 81-year-old gentleman.  The patient had shortness of breath over the last few days, progressively worse.  Yesterday he had one episode and got concerned and came to the Emergency Room, also orthopnea and paroxysmal dyspnea.  Coronary artery disease workup many years ago.  He also has shortness of breath, weakness, and tiredness.,CORONARY RISK FACTORS: , History of hypertension, no history of diabetes mellitus, ex-smoker, cholesterol status elevated, no history of established coronary artery disease, and family history positive.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Positive for coronary artery disease.,SURGICAL HISTORY: , Knee surgery, hip surgery, shoulder surgery, cholecystectomy, and appendectomy.,MEDICATIONS: , Thyroid supplementation, atenolol 25 mg daily, Lasix, potassium supplementation, lovastatin 40 mg daily, and Coumadin adjusted dose.,ALLERGIES: , ASPIRIN.,PERSONAL HISTORY:,  Married, ex-smoker, and does not consume alcohol.  No history of recreational drug use.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Hypertension, hyperlipidemia, atrial fibrillation chronic, on anticoagulation.,SURGICAL HISTORY: , As above.,PRESENTATION HISTORY: , Shortness of breath, weakness, fatigue, and tiredness.  The patient also relates history of questionable TIA in 1994.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,CONSTITUTIONAL:  Weakness, fatigue, tiredness.,HEENT:  No history of cataracts, blurry vision or glaucoma.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Arrhythmia, congestive heart failure, no coronary artery disease.,RESPIRATORY:  Shortness of breath.  No pneumonia or valley fever.,GASTROINTESTINAL:  Nausea, no vomiting, hematemesis, or melena.,UROLOGICAL:  Some frequency, urgency, no hematuria.,MUSCULOSKELETAL:  Arthritis, muscle weakness.,SKIN:  Chronic skin changes.,CNS:  History of TIA.  No CVA, no seizure disorder.,ENDOCRINE:  Nonsignificant.,HEMATOLOGICAL:  Nonsignificant.,PSYCHOLOGICAL:  No anxiety or depression.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  Pulse of 67, blood pressure 159/49, afebrile, and respiratory rate 18 per minute.,HEENT:  Atraumatic and normocephalic.,NECK:  Neck veins flat.  No significant carotid bruits.,LUNGS:  Air entry bilaterally fair, decreased in basal areas.  No rales or wheezes.,HEART:  PMI displaced.  S1 and S2 regular.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.  Bowel sounds present.,EXTREMITIES:  Chronic skin changes.  Pulses are palpable.  No clubbing or cyanosis.,CNS:  Grossly intact.,LABORATORY DATA: , H&H stable 30 and 39, INR of 1.86, BUN and creatinine within normal limits, potassium normal limits.  First set of cardiac enzymes profile negative.  BNP 4810.,Chest x-ray confirms unremarkable findings.  EKG reveals atrial fibrillation, nonspecific ST-T changes.,IMPRESSION:
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  ,Carpal tunnel syndrome, bilateral.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Carpal tunnel syndrome, bilateral.,ANESTHESIA:,  General,NAME OF OPERATION: , Bilateral open carpal tunnel release.,FINDINGS AT OPERATION: , The patient had identical, very thick, transverse carpal ligaments, with dull synovium.,PROCEDURE:  ,Under satisfactory anesthesia, the patient was prepped and draped in a routine manner on both upper extremities.  The right upper extremity was exsanguinated, and the tourniquet inflated.  A curved incision was made at the the ulnar base, carried through the subcutaneous tissue and superficial fascia, down to the transverse carpal ligament.  This was divided under direct vision along its ulnar border, and wound closed with interrupted nylon.  The wound was injected, and a dry, sterile dressing was applied.  An identical procedure was done to the opposite side.  The patient left the operating room in satisfactory condition.
REASON FOR REFERRAL:  ,The patient was referred for a neuropsychological evaluation by Dr. X.  A comprehensive evaluation was requested to assess neuropsychological factors, clarify areas of strength and weakness, and to assist in therapeutic program planning in light of episodes of syncope.,BRIEF SUMMARY & IMPRESSIONS:,RELEVANT HISTORY:,Historical information was obtained from a review of available medical records and an interview with ,the patient.,The patient presented to Dr. X on August 05, 2008 as she had been recently hospitalized for prolonged episodes of syncope.  She was referred to Dr. X for diagnostic differentiation for possible seizures or other causes of syncope.  The patient reports an extensive neurological history.  Her mother used alcohol during her pregnancy with the patient.  In spite of exposure to alcohol in utero, the patient reported that she achieved "honors in school" and "looked smart."  She reported that she began to experience migraines at 11 years of age.  At 15 years of age, she reported that she was thought to have hydrocephalus.  She reported that she will frequently "bang her head against the wall" to relieve the pain.  The patient gave birth to her daughter at 17 years of age.  At 18 years of age, she received a spinal tap as a procedure to determine the cause of her severe headaches.  She reported, in 1995 to 1996 she experienced a severe head injury, as she was struck by a car as a pedestrian and "thrown two and a half city blocks."  The patient reported that she could recall before being hit, but could not recall the activities of that same day or the following day.  She reported that she had difficulty walking following this head injury, but received rehabilitation for approximately one month.  Her migraines became more severe following the head injury.  In 1998, she reportedly was experiencing episodes of syncope where she would experience a headache with photophobia, phonophobia, and flashing lights.  Following the syncope episode, she would experience some confusion.  These episodes reportedly were related to her donating plasma.,The patient also reported that her ex-husband stated that she frequently jerked and would shake in her sleep.  She reported that upon awakening, she would feel off balanced and somewhat confused.  These episodes diminished from 2002 to June 2008.  When making dinner, she suddenly dropped and hit the back of her head on refrigerator.  She reported that she was unconscious for five to six minutes.  A second episode occurred on July 20th when she lost consciousness for may be a full day.  She was admitted to Sinai Hospital and assessed by a neurologist.  Her EEG and head CT were considered to be completely normal.  She did not report any typical episodes during the time of her 36-hour EEG.  She reported that her last episode of syncope occurred prior to her being hospitalized.  She stated that she had an aura of her ears ringing, vision being darker and "tunnel vision" (vision goes smaller to a pinpoint), and she was "spazzing out" on the floor.  During these episodes, she reports that she cannot talk and has difficulty understanding.,The patient also reports that she has experienced some insomnia since she was 6 years old.  She reported that she was a heavy drinker until about 1998 or 1999 and that she would drink a gallon daily of Jack Daniel.  She stopped the use of alcohol and that time she experienced a suicide attempt.  In 2002, she was diagnosed with bipolar disorder and was started on medication.  At the time of the neuropsychological evaluation, she had stopped taking her medicine as she felt that she was now in remission and could manage her symptoms herself.  The patient's medical history is also significant for postpartum depression.,The patient reported that she has been experiencing difficulty with cognitive abilities of attention/concentration, spelling, tangential and slow thinking, poor sequencing memory for events, and variable verbal memory.  She reported that she sometimes has difficulty understanding what people say, specifically she has difficulty understanding jokes.  She finds that she often has difficulty with expressing her thoughts, as she is very tangential.  She experiences episodes of not recalling what she was speaking of or remembering what activities she was trying to perform.  She reported that she had a photographic memory for directions.  She said that she experienced a great deal of emotional lability, but in general her personality has become more subdued.  At the present time, her daughter has now moved on to college.  The patient is living with her biological mother.  Although she is going through divorce, she reported that it was not really stressful.  She reported that she spends her day driving other people around and trying to be helpful to them.,At the time of the neuropsychological evaluation, the patient's medication included Ativan, Imitrex, Levoxyl, vitamin B12, albuterol metered dose inhaler as needed, and Zofran as needed.  (It should be noted that The patient by the time of the feedback on September 19, 2008 had resumed taking her Trileptal for bipolar disorder.).  The patient's familial medical history is significant for alcohol abuse, diabetes, hypertension, and high cholesterol.,TESTS ADMINISTERED:,Clinical Interview,Cognistat,Mattis Dementia Rating Scale,Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale - III (WAIS-III),Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI),Selected Subtests from the Delis Kaplan Executive Function System (DKEFS),  Trail Making Test,  Verbal Fluency (Letter Fluency & Category Fluency),  Design Fluency,  Color-Word Interference Test,  Tower,Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST),Stroop Test,Color Trails,Trails A & B,Test of Variables of Attention,Multilingual Aphasia Examination II,  Token Test,  Sentence Repetition,  Visual Naming,  Controlled Oral Word Association,  Spelling Test,  Aural Comprehension,  Reading Comprehension,Boston Naming Test-2 (BNT-2),Animal Naming Test,The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual-Motor Integration (VMI),The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Motor Coordination,The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual Perception,Judgment Line Orientation,Grooved Pegboard,Purdue Pegboard,Finger Tapping Test,Rey Complex Figure,Wechsler Memory Scale -III (WMS-III),California Verbal Learning Test
DIAGNOSES,1.  Term pregnancy.,2.  Possible rupture of membranes, prolonged.,PROCEDURE:,  Induction of vaginal delivery of viable male, Apgars 8 and 9.,HOSPITAL COURSE:,  The patient is a 20-year-old female, gravida 4, para 0, who presented to the office.  She had small amount of leaking since last night.  On exam, she was positive Nitrazine, no ferning was noted.  On ultrasound, her AFI was about 4.7 cm.  Because of a variable cervix, oligohydramnios, and possible ruptured membranes, we recommended induction.,She was brought to the hospital and begun on Pitocin.  Once she was in her regular pattern, we ruptured her bag of water; fluid was clear.  She went rapidly to completion over the next hour and a half.  She then pushed for 2 hours delivering a viable male over an intact perineum in an OA presentation.  Upon delivery of the head, the anterior and posterior arms were delivered, and remainder of the baby without complications.  The baby was vigorous, moving all extremities.  The cord was clamped and cut.  The baby was handed off to mom with nurse present.  Apgars were 8 and 9.  Placenta was delivered spontaneously, intact.  Three-vessel cord with no retained placenta.  Estimated blood loss was about 150 mL.  There were no tears.
PROCEDURE:,  Upper endoscopy with biopsy.,PROCEDURE INDICATION: , This is a 44-year-old man who was admitted for coffee-ground emesis, which has been going on for the past several days.  An endoscopy is being done to evaluate for source of upper GI bleeding.,Informed consent was obtained.  Outlining the risks, benefits and alternatives of the procedure included, but not to risks of bleeding, infection, perforation, the patient agreed for the procedure.,MEDICATIONS: , Versed 4 mg IV push and fentanyl 75 mcg IV push given throughout the procedure in incremental fashion with careful monitoring of patient's pressures and vital signs.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:  ,The patient was placed in the left lateral decubitus position.  Medications were given.  After adequate sedation was achieved, the Olympus video endoscope was inserted into the mouth and advanced towards the duodenum.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Soft tissue mass, right foot.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Soft tissue mass, right foot.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Excision of soft tissue mass, right foot.,HISTORY:  ,The patient is a 51-year-old female with complaints of soft tissue mass over the dorsum of the right foot.  The patient has had previous injections to the site which have caused the mass to decrease in size, however, the mass continues to be present and is irritated and painful with shoes.  The patient has requested surgical intervention at this time.,PROCEDURE:  ,After an IV was instituted by the Department of Anesthesia, the patient was escorted from the preoperative holding area to the operating room.  The patient was then placed on the operating room table in the supine position and a towel was placed around the patient's abdomen and secured her to the table.  Using copious amounts of Webril, a pneumatic ankle tourniquet was applied to her right ankle.  Using a Skin Skribe, the area of the soft tissue mass was outlined over the dorsum of her foot.  After adequate amount of anesthesia was provided by the Department of Anesthesia, a local ankle block was given using 10 cc of 4.5 mL of 1% lidocaine plain, 4.5 mL of 0.5% Marcaine plain and 1.0 mL of Solu-Medrol and the foot was scrubbed and prepped in a normal sterile orthopedic manner.  Following this, the ankle was elevated and Esmarch bandage applied to exsanguinate the foot and the ankle tourniquet was inflated to 250 mmHg.  The foot was then brought back down to the table using bandage scissors.  The stockinette was reflected and the right foot was exposed.  Using a fresh #10 blade, a curvilinear incision was performed over the dorsum of the right foot.  Then using a #15 blade, the incision was deepened with care taken to identify and avoid or cauterize any bleeders which were noted.  Following this, the incision was deepened using a combination of sharp and blunt dissection and the muscle belly of the extensor digitorum brevis muscle was identified.  Further dissection was then performed in the medial direction in the area of the soft tissue mass.  The intermediate dorsal cutaneous nerve was identified and gently retracted laterally.  Large amounts of adipose tissue were noted medial to the belly of the extensor digitorum brevis muscle.  Using careful dissection, adipose tissue in this area was removed and saved for pathology.  Following removal of adipose tissue in this area and identification of no more adipose tissue, attention was directed lateral to the belly of the extensor digitorum brevis muscle, which was also noted to have large amounts of adipose tissue in this area as well.  Using careful dissection, from the lateral border of the foot as much adipose tissue as possible was removed from this area as well and saved for pathology.  There was noted to be no other fluid-filled masses or lesions identifiable in this area then between the slits of the extensor digitorum brevis muscle, careful dissection was performed to examine the underside of the belly of the muscle as well as structures beneath and no abnormal structures were identified here as well.  Following this, feeling adequately that no other mass remained in the area, the incision was flushed using copious amounts of sterile saline.  The wound was then reinspected and all remaining tissues appeared healthy including the subcutaneous tissue.  The tendon and muscle belly of the extensor digitorum brevis muscle, the nerves of the intermediate dorsal cutaneous nerve and also the medial dorsal cutaneous nerve which were identified medially, all appeared intact.  No deficits were noted.  No abnormal appearing tissue was present within the surgical site.  Following this, the skin edges were reapproximated using #4-0 Vicryl deep closure of the subcutaneous layer was performed.  Then, using #4-0 nylon and simple interrupted suture, the skin was reapproximated and closed with care taken to ensure eversion of the skin edges and good approximation of the borders.  The patient was also given 7 cc of 1% lidocaine plain throughout the procedure to augment local anesthesia.  Following this, the wound was dressed using Xeroform gauze and 4x4s and was dressed using two ABD pads, dorsal and plantar for compression and using Kling, Kerlix and Coban.  The patient then had the ankle tourniquet deflated with a total tourniquet time of 55 minutes at 250 mmHg and immediate hyperemia was noted to digits one through five of the right foot.  The patient tolerated the procedure and anesthesia well and was noted to have vascular status intact.  The patient was then escorted to the Postanesthesia Care Unit where she was placed in a surgical shoe.  The patient was then given postoperative instructions to include ice and elevation to her right foot.  The patient was cleared for ambulation as tolerated, but was instructed that with increased ambulation will come increased swelling and pain.  The patient will follow up with Dr. X in his office on Tuesday, 08/26/03 for further follow up.  The patient was given prescription for Vicoprofen #25 taken one tablet q.4h. p.r.n., moderate to severe pain and also prescription for Keflex #20 500 mg tablets to be taken b.i.d. x10 days.  The patient was given a number for the Emergency Room and instructed to return if any sign or symptom of infection should present and the patient was educated as to the nature of these.  The patient had no further questions and recovered without any complications in the Postanesthesia Care Unit.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Desires permanent sterilization.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Desires permanent sterilization.,PROCEDURE: , Laparoscopic tubal ligation, Falope ring method.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , 10 mL.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,INDICATIONS FOR SURGERY:  ,A 35-year-old female, P4-0-0-4, who desires permanent sterilization.  The risks of bleeding, infection, damage to other organs, and subsequent ectopic pregnancy was explained.  Informed consent was obtained.,OPERATIVE FINDINGS: , Normal appearing uterus and adnexa bilaterally.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , After administration of general anesthesia, the patient was placed in the dorsal lithotomy position, and prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  The speculum was placed in the vagina, the cervix was grasped with the tenaculum, and a uterine manipulator inserted.  This area was then draped off the remainder of the operative field.,A 5-mm incision was made umbilically after injecting 0.25% Marcaine, 2 mL.  A Veress needle was inserted to confirm an opening pressure of 2 mmHg.  Approximately 4 liters of CO2 gas was insufflated into the abdominal cavity.  The Veress needle was removed, and a 5-mm port placed.  Position was confirmed using a laparoscope.  A second port was placed under direct visualization, 3 fingerbreadths suprapubically, 7 mm in diameter, after 2 mL of 0.25% Marcaine was injected.  This was done under direct visualization.  The pelvic cavity was examined with the findings as noted above.  The Falope rings were then applied to each tube bilaterally.  Good segments were noted to be ligated.  The accessory port was removed.  The abdomen was deflated.  The laparoscope and sheath was removed.  The skin edges were approximated with 5-0 Monocryl suture in subcuticular fashion.  The instruments were removed from the vagina.  The patient was returned to the supine position, recalled from anesthesia, and transferred to the recovery room in satisfactory condition.  Sponge and needle counts correct at the conclusion of the case.  Estimated blood loss was minimal.
Thereafter, he was evaluated and it was felt that further reconstruction as related to the anterior cruciate ligament was definitely not indicated.  On December 5, 2008, Mr. XXXX did undergo a total knee replacement arthroplasty performed by Dr. X.,Thereafter, he did an extensive course of physical therapy, work hardening, and a work conditioning type program.,At the present time, he does complain of significant pain and swelling as related to the right knee.  He is unable to crawl and/or kneel.  He does state he is able to walk a city block and in fact, he is able to do 20 minutes of a treadmill.  Stairs are a significant problem.  His pain is a 5 to 6 on a scale of 1 to 10.,He is better when he is resting, sitting, propped up, and utilizing his ice.  He is much worse when he is doing any type of physical activity.,He has denied having any previous history of similar problems.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:  ,Over-the-counter pain medication.,ALLERGIES: , NKA.,SURGERIES: , Numerous surgeries as related to the right lower extremity.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , He does admit to one half pack of cigarette consumption per day.  He denies any alcohol consumption.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  ,On examination today, he is 28-year-old male who is 6 feet 1, weighs 250 pounds.  He does not appear to be in distress at this time.  One could appreciate 1-2/4 intraarticular effusion.  The range of motion is 0 to a 110 degrees of flexion.  I could not appreciate any evidence of instability medial, lateral, anterior or posterior.  Crepitus is noted with regards to range of motion testing.  His strength is 4 to 5 as related to the quadriceps and hamstring.,There is atrophy as related to the right thigh.  The patient is able to stand from a seated position and sit from a standing position without difficulty.,RECORDS REVIEW:,1.  First report of injury.,2.  July 17, 2002, x-rays of the right knee were negative.,3.  Notes of the Medina General Hospital Occupational Health, Steven Rodgers, M.D.,4.  August 5, 2002, an MRI scan of the right knee which demonstrated peripheral tear of the posterior horn of the medial
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  ,1.  Suspected mastoiditis ruled out.,2.  Right acute otitis media.,3.  Severe ear pain resolving.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is an 11-year-old male who was admitted from the ER after a CT scan suggested that the child had mastoiditis.  The child has had very severe ear pain and blood draining from the right ear.  The child had a temperature maximum of 101.4 in the ER.  The patient was admitted and started on IV Unasyn, which he tolerated well and required Morphine and Vicodin for pain control.  In the first 12 hours after admission, the patient's pain decreased and also swelling of his cervical area decreased.  The patient was evaluated by Dr. X from the ENT while in house.  After reviewing the CT scan, it was felt that the CT scan was not consistent with mastoiditis.  The child was continued on IV fluid and narcotics for pain as well as Unasyn until the time of discharge.  At the time of discharge his pain is markedly decreased about 2/10 and swelling in the area has improved.  The patient is also able to take p.o. well.,DISCHARGE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  The patient is alert, in no respiratory distress.,VITAL SIGNS:  His temperature is 97.6, heart rate 83, blood pressure 105/57, respiratory rate 16 on room air.,HEENT:  Right ear shows no redness.  The area behind his ear is nontender.  There is a large posterior chains node that is nontender and the swelling in this area has decreased markedly.,NECK:  Supple.,CHEST:  Clear breath sounds.,CARDIAC:  Normal S1, S2 without murmur.,ABDOMEN:  Soft.  There is no hepatosplenomegaly or tenderness.,SKIN:  Warm and well perfused.,DISCHARGE WEIGHT: , 38.7 kg.,DISCHARGE CONDITION: , Good.,DISCHARGE DIET:,  Regular as tolerated.,DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  ,1.  Ciprodex Otic Solution in the right ear twice daily.,2.  Augmentin 500 mg three times daily x10 days.,FOLLOW UP:  ,1.  Dr. Y in one week (ENT).,2.  The primary care physician in 2 to 3 days.,TIME SPENT: , Approximate discharge time is 28 minutes.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Left pleural effusion, parapneumonic, loculated.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Left pleural effusion, parapneumonic, loculated.,OPERATION: , Left chest tube placement.,IV SEDATION: , 5 mg of Versed total given under pulse ox monitoring, 1% lidocaine local infiltration.,PROCEDURE: , With the patient semi recumbent and supine the left anterolateral chest was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  A 1% lidocaine was liberally infiltrated into the skin, subcutaneous tissue, deep fascia and the anterior axillary line just below the level of the nipple.  The incision was made and deepened through the different layers to reach the intercostal space.  The pleura was entered on top of the underlying rib and finger digital palpation was performed.  Multiple loculations were encountered.  Break up of loculations was performed posteriorly and a chest tube was directed posteriorly.  Only a small amount of fluid was noted to come out initially.  This was sent for various studies.  Soft adhesions were encountered.  The plan was to obtain a chest x-ray and start Activase installation.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Radiation cystitis.,2.  Refractory voiding dysfunction.,3.  Status post radical retropubic prostatectomy and subsequent salvage radiation therapy.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Radiation cystitis.,2.  Refractory voiding dysfunction.,3.  Status post radical retropubic prostatectomy and subsequent salvage radiation therapy.,TITLE OF OPERATION: , Salvage cystectomy (very difficult due to postradical prostatectomy and postradiation therapy to the pelvis), Indiana pouch continent cutaneous diversion, and omental pedicle flap to the pelvis.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal with epidural.,INDICATIONS:  ,This patient is a 65-year-old white male who in 1998 had a radical prostatectomy.  He was initially dry without pads and then underwent salvage radiation therapy for rising PSA.  After that he began with episodes of incontinence as well as urinary retention requiring catheterization.  One year ago, he was unable to catheterize and was taken to the operative room and had cystoscopy.  He had retained staple removed and a diverticulum identified.  There were also bladder stones that were lasered and removed, and he had been incontinent ever since that time.  He wears 8 to 10 pads per day, and this has affected his quality of life significantly.  I took him to the operating room on January 16, 2008, and found diffuse radiation changes with a small capacity bladder and wide-open bladder neck.  We both felt that his lower urinary tract was not rehabilitatable and that a continent cutaneous diversion would solve the number of problems facing him.  I felt like if we could remove the bladder safely, then this would also provide a benefit.,FINDINGS: , At exploration, there were no gross lesions of the smaller or large bowel.  The bladder was predictably sucked into the pelvic sidewall both inferiorly and laterally.  The opened bladder, which we were able to remove completely, had a wide-open capacious diverticulum in its very distal segment.  Because of the previous radiation therapy and a dissection down to the pelvis, I elected to place an omental pedicle flap to provide additional blood supply for healing as well in the pelvis and also under the pubic bone which was exposed inferiorly due to previous surgery and treatment.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:  ,The patient was brought to the operative suite and after adequate general endotracheal and epidural anesthesia obtained, placed in the supine position, flexed over the anterosuperior iliac spine, and his abdomen and genitalia were sterilely prepped and draped in the usual fashion.  A nasogastric tube was placed as well as radial arterial line.  He was given intravenous antibiotics for prophylaxis.  A generous midline skin incision was made from the midepigastrium down to the symphysis pubis, deep into the rectus fascia, the rectus muscle separated in the midline, and exploration carried out with the findings described.  Moist wound towels and a Bookwalter retractor were placed for exposure.  We began by retracting the bowels by mobilizing the cecum and ascending colon and hepatic flexure and elevating the terminal ileum up to the second and third portion of the duodenum.  The ureter was identified as a crisis over the iliac vessels and dissected deep into pelvis and subsequently divided between clips.  An identical procedure was performed in the left side with similar findings and the bowels were packed cephalad.,We began then dissecting the bladder away from the pelvic side walls staying medial to both epigastric arteries.  This was quite challenging because of the previous radiation therapy and radical prostatectomy.  We essentially carved the bladder off of the pelvic sidewall inferiorly as best we could and then we were able to have enough freedom to identify the lateral pedicles, and these were taken between double clips approximately and clipped distally.  We then approached things posteriorly and carefully dissected between the __________ and posterior bladder.  There was some remnant seminal vesicle on the right as well as both remnant ejaculatory duct and we used this to dissect the longus safe plane anterior to the rectum.  We then entered the bladder anteriorly as distal as we could and remove the bladder and what we thought was a bladder neck and this appeared to end in a diverticulum.  We then peeled it off the remaining rectum and passed the specimen off the operative field.  Bladder was irrigated with warm sterile water and a meticulous inspection was made for hemostasis.,We then completely mobilized the omentum off of the proximal transverse colon.  This allowed a generous flap to be able to be laid into the pelvis without tension.,We then turned our attention to forming the Indiana pouch.  I completed the dissection of the right hepatic flexure and the proximal transverse colon and mobilized the omentum off of this portion of the colon.  The colon was divided proximal to the middle colic using a GIA-80 stapler.  I then divided the avascular plane of Treves along the terminal ileum and selected a point approximately 15 cm proximal to the ileocecal valve to divide the ileum.  The mesentery was then sealed with a LigaSure device and divided, and the bowel was divided with a GIA-60 stapler.  We then performed a side-to-side ileo-transverse colostomy using a GIA-80 stapler, closing the open end with a TA 60.  The angles were reinforced with silk sutures and the mesenteric closed with interrupted silk sutures.,We then removed the staple line along the terminal ileum, passed a 12-French Robinson catheter into the cecal segment, and plicated the ileum with 3 firings of the GIA-60 stapler.  The ileocecal valve was then reinforced with interrupted 3-0 silk sutures as described by Rowland, et al, and following this, passage of an 18-French Robinson catheter was associated with the characteristic "pop," indicating that we had adequately plicated the ileocecal valve.,As the patient had had a previous appendectomy, we made an opening in the cecum in the area of the previous appendectomy.  We then removed the distal staple line along the transverse colon and aligned the cecal end and the distal middle colic end with two 3-0 Vicryl sutures.  The bowel segment was then folded over on itself and the reservoir formed with 3 successive applications of the SGIA Polysorb-75.  Between the staple lines, Vicryl sutures were placed and the defects closed with 3-0 Vicryl suture ligatures.,We then turned our attention to forming the ileocolonic anastomosis.  The left ureter was mobilized and brought underneath the sigmoid mesentery and brought through the mesentery of the terminal ileum and an end-to-side anastomosis performed with an open technique using interrupted 4-0 Vicryl sutures, and this was stented with a Cook 8.4-French ureteral stent, and this was secured to the bowel lumen with a 5-0 chromic suture.  The right ureter was brought underneath the pouch and placed in a stented fashion with an identical anastomosis.  We then brought the stents out through a separate incision cephalad in the pouch and they were secured with a 2-0 chromic suture.  A 24-French Malecot catheter was placed through the cecum and secured with a chromic suture.  The staple lines were then buried with a running 3-0 Vicryl two-layer suture and the open end of the pouch closed with a TA 60 Polysorb suture.  The pouch was filled to 240 cc and noted to be watertight, and the ureteral anastomoses were intact.,We then made a final inspection for hemostasis.  The cecostomy tube was then brought out to the right lower quadrant and secured to the skin with silk sutures.  We then matured our stoma through the umbilicus.  We removed the plug of skin through the umbilicus and delivered the ileal segment through this.  A portion of the ileum was removed and healthy, well-vascularized tissue was matured with interrupted 3-0 chromic sutures.  We left an 18-French Robinson through the stomag and secured this to the skin with silk sutures.  The Malecot and stents were also secured in a similar fashion.,We matured the stoma to the umbilicus with interrupted chromic stitches.  The stitch was brought out to the right upper quadrant and the Malecot to the left lower quadrant.  A Large JP drain was placed in the pelvis dependent to the omentum pedicle flap as well as the Indiana pouch.,The rectus fascia was closed with a buried #2 Prolene running stitch, tying a new figure-of-eight proximally and distally and meeting in the middle and tying it underneath the fascia.  Subcutaneous tissue was irrigated with saline and skin was closed with surgical clips.  The estimated blood loss was 450 mL, and the patient received no packed red blood cells.  The final sponge and needle count were reported to be correct.  The patient was awakened and extubated, and taken on stretcher to the recovery room in satisfactory condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Ganglion of the left wrist.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Ganglion of the left wrist.,OPERATION: , Excision of ganglion.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Less than 5 mL.,OPERATION: , After a successful anesthetic, the patient was positioned on the operating table.  A tourniquet applied to the upper arm.  The extremity was prepped in a usual manner for a surgical procedure and draped off.  The superficial vessels were exsanguinated with an elastic wrap and the tourniquet was then inflated to the usual arm pressure.  A curved incision was made over the presenting ganglion over the dorsal aspect of the wrist.  By blunt and sharp dissection, it was dissected out from underneath the extensor tendons and the stalk appeared to arise from the distal radiocapitellar joint and the dorsal capsule was excised along with the ganglion and the specimen was removed and submitted.  The small superficial vessels were electrocoagulated and instilled after closing the skin with 4-0 Prolene, into the area was approximately 6 to 7 mL of 0.25 Marcaine with epinephrine.  A Jackson-Pratt drain was inserted and then after the tourniquet was released, it was kept deflated until at least 5 to 10 minutes had passed and then it was activated and then removed in the recovery room.  The dressings applied to the hand were that of Xeroform, 4x4s, ABD, Kerlix, and elastic wrap over a volar fiberglass splint.  The tourniquet was released.  Circulation returned to the fingers.  The patient then was allowed to awaken and left the operating room in good condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Herniated nucleus pulposus C5-C6.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Herniated nucleus pulposus C5-C6.,PROCEDURE:,  Anterior cervical discectomy fusion C5-C6 followed by instrumentation C5-C6 with titanium dynamic plating system, Aesculap.  Operating microscope was used for both illumination and magnification.,FIRST ASSISTANT: , Nurse practitioner.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was placed in supine position.  The neck was prepped and draped in the usual fashion for anterior discectomy and fusion.  An incision was made midline to the anterior body of the sternocleidomastoid at C5-C6 level.  The skin, subcutaneous tissue, and platysma muscle was divided exposing the carotid sheath, which was retracted laterally.  Trachea and esophagus were retracted medially.  After placing the self-retaining retractors with the longus colli muscles having been dissected away from the vertebral bodies at C5 and C6 and confirming our position with intraoperative x-rays, we then proceeded with the discectomy.,We then cleaned out the disc at C5-C6 after incising the annulus fibrosis.  We cleaned out the disc with a combination of angled and straight pituitary rongeurs and curettes, and the next step was to clean out the disc space totally.  With this having been done, we then turned our attention with the operating microscope to the osteophytes.  We drilled off the vertebral osteophytes at C5-C6, as well as the uncovertebral osteophytes.  This was removed along with the posterior longitudinal ligament.  After we had done this, the dural sac was opposed very nicely and both C6 nerve roots were thoroughly decompressed.  The next step after the decompression of the thecal sac and both C6 nerve roots was the fusion.  We observed that there was a ____________ in the posterior longitudinal ligament.  There was a free fragment disc, which had broken through the posterior longitudinal ligament just to the right of midline.,The next step was to obtain the bone from the back bone, using cortical cancellous graft 10 mm in size after we had estimated the size.  That was secured into place with distraction being applied on the vertebral bodies using vertebral body distractor.,After we had tapped in the bone plug, we then removed the distraction and the bone plug was fitting nicely.,We then use the Aesculap cervical titanium instrumentation with the 16-mm screws.  After securing the C5-C6 disc with four screws and titanium plate, x-rays showed good alignment of the spine, good placement of the bone graft, and after x-rays showed excellent position of the bone graft and instrumentation, we then placed in a Jackson-Pratt drain in the prevertebral space brought out through a separate incision.  The wound was closed with 2-0 Vicryl for subcutaneous tissues and skin was closed with Steri-Strips.  Blood loss during the operation was less than 10 mL.  No complications of the surgery.  Needle count, sponge count, and cottonoid count were correct.,
CHIEF COMPLAINT:,1.  Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).,2.  Autoimmune hemolytic anemia.,3.  Oral ulcer.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 72-year-old gentleman who was diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia in May 2008.  He was noted to have autoimmune hemolytic anemia at the time of his CLL diagnosis.  He has been on chronic steroids to control his hemolysis and is currently on prednisone 5 mg every other day.  He comes in to clinic today for follow-up and complete blood count.  At his last office visit we discontinued this prophylactic antivirals and antibacterial.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Prilosec 20 mg b.i.d., levothyroxine 50 mcg q.d., Lopressor 75 mg q.d., vitamin C 500 mg q.d., multivitamin q.d., simvastatin 20 mg q.d., and prednisone 5 mg q.o.d.,ALLERGIES:  ,Vicodin.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  ,The patient reports ulcer on his tongue and his lip.  He has been off of Valtrex for five days.  He is having some difficulty with his night vision with his left eye.  He has a known cataract.  He denies any fevers, chills, or night sweats.  He continues to have headaches.  The rest of his review of systems is negative.,PHYSICAL EXAM:,VITALS:
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Cholelithiasis.,2.  Acute cholecystitis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Acute on chronic cholecystitis.,2.  Cholelithiasis.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Laparoscopic cholecystectomy with cholangiogram.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,INDICATIONS: , This is a 38-year-old diabetic Hispanic female patient, with ongoing recurrent episodes of right upper quadrant pain, associated with nausea.  Ultrasound revealed cholelithiasis.  The patient also had somewhat thickened gallbladder wall.  The patient was admitted through emergency room last night with acute onset right upper quadrant pain.  Clinically, it was felt the patient had acute cholecystitis.  Laparoscopic cholecystectomy with cholangiogram was advised.  Procedure, indication, risk, and alternative were discussed with the patient in detail preoperatively and informed consent was obtained.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , The patient was put in supine position on the operating table under satisfactory general anesthesia, and abdomen was prepped and draped.  A small transverse incision was made just above the umbilicus under local anesthesia.  Fascia was opened vertically.  Stay sutures were placed in the fascia.  Peritoneal cavity was carefully entered.  Hasson cannula was inserted and peritoneal cavity was insufflated with CO2.,Laparoscopic camera was inserted, and the patient was placed in reverse Trendelenburg, rotated to the left.  A 11-mm trocar was placed in the subxiphoid space and two 5-mm in the right subcostal region.  Examination at this time showed no free fluid, no acute inflammatory changes.  Liver was grossly normal.  Gallbladder was noted to be thickened.  Gallbladder wall with a stone stuck in the neck of the gallbladder and pericholecystic edema, consistent with acute cholecystitis.,The fundus of the gallbladder was retracted superiorly, and dissection was carried at the neck of the gallbladder where a cystic duct was identified and isolated.  It was clipped distally and using C-arm fluoroscopy, intraoperative cystic duct cholangiogram was done, which was interpreted as normal.  There was slight dilatation noted at the junction of the right and left hepatic duct, but no filling defects or any other pathology was noted.  It was presumed that this was probably a congenital anomaly.  The cystic duct was clipped twice proximally and divided beyond the clips.  Cystic artery was identified, isolated, clipped twice proximally, once distally, and divided.,The gallbladder was then removed from its bed using cautery dissection and subsequently delivered through the umbilical port.  Specimen was sent for histopathology.  Subhepatic and subdiaphragmatic spaces were irrigated with sterile saline solution.  Hemostasis was good.  Trocars were removed under direct vision and peritoneal cavity was evacuated with CO2.  Umbilical area fascia was closed with 0-Vicryl figure-of-eight sutures, required extra sutures to close the fascial defect.  Some difficulty was encountered closing the fascia initially because of the patient's significant amount of subcutaneous fat.  In the end, the repair appears to be quite satisfactory.  Rest of the incisions closed with 3-0 Vicryl for the subcutaneous tissues and staples for the skin.  Sterile dressing was applied.,The patient transferred to recovery room in stable condition.
CLINICAL HISTORY: , Patient is a 37-year-old female with a history of colectomy for adenoma.  During her preop evaluation it was noted that she had a lesion on her chest x-ray.  CT scan of the chest confirmed a left lower mass.,SPECIMEN: , Lung, left lower lobe resection.,IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STUDIES:,  Tumor cells show no reactivity with cytokeratin AE1/AE3.  No significant reactivity with CAM5.2 and no reactivity with cytokeratin-20 are seen.  Tumor cells show partial reactivity with cytokeratin-7.  PAS with diastase demonstrates no convincing intracytoplasmic mucin.  No neuroendocrine differentiation is demonstrated with synaptophysin and chromogranin stains.  Tumor cells show cytoplasmic and nuclear reactivity with S100 antibody.  No significant reactivity is demonstrated with melanoma marker HMB-45 or Melan-A.  Tumor cell nuclei (spindle cell and pleomorphic/giant cell carcinoma components) show nuclear reactivity with thyroid transcription factor marker (TTF-1).  The immunohistochemical studies are consistent with primary lung sarcomatoid carcinoma with pleomorphic/giant cell carcinoma and spindle cell carcinoma components.,FINAL DIAGNOSIS:,Histologic Tumor Type:  Sarcomatoid carcinoma with areas of pleomorphic/giant cell carcinoma and spindle cell carcinoma.,Tumor Size:  2.7 x 2.0 x 1.4 cm.,Visceral Pleura Involvement:  The tumor closely approaches the pleural surface but does not invade the pleura.,Vascular Invasion:  Present.,Margins:  Bronchial resection margins and vascular margins are free of tumor.,Lymph Nodes:  Metastatic sarcomatoid carcinoma into one of four hilar lymph nodes.,Pathologic Stage:  pT1N1MX.
PROCEDURE CODES:  64640 times two, 64614 time two, 95873 times two, 29405 times two.,PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  Spastic diplegic cerebral palsy, 343.0.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  Spastic diplegic cerebral palsy, 343.0.,ANESTHESIA:  MAC.,COMPLICATIONS:  None.,DESCRIPTION OF TECHNIQUE:  Informed consent was obtained from the patient's mom.  The patient was brought to minor procedures and sedated per their protocol.  The patient was positioned lying supine.  Skin overlying all areas injected was prepped with chlorhexidine.,The obturator nerves were identified lateral to the adductor longus tendon origin and below the femoral pulse with active EMG stimulation.  Approximately 4 mL of 5% phenol was injected in this location bilaterally.  Phenol injections were done at the site of maximum hip adduction contraction with least amount of stimulus.  Negative drawback for blood was done prior to each injection of phenol.,Muscles injected with botulinum toxin were identified with active EMG stimulation.  Approximately 50 units was injected in the rectus femoris bilaterally, 75 units in the medial hamstrings bilaterally and 100 units in the gastrocnemius soleus muscles bilaterally.  Total amount of botulinum toxin injected was 450 units diluted 25 units to 1 mL.  After injections were performed, bilateral short leg fiberglass casts were applied.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and no complications were encountered.
DESCRIPTION:,1.  Normal cardiac chambers size.,2.  Normal left ventricular size.,3.  Normal LV systolic function.  Ejection fraction estimated around 60%.,4.  Aortic valve seen with good motion.,5.  Mitral valve seen with good motion.,6.  Tricuspid valve seen with good motion.,7.  No pericardial effusion or intracardiac masses.,DOPPLER:,1.  Trace mitral regurgitation.,2.  Trace tricuspid regurgitation.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Normal LV systolic function.,2.  Ejection fraction estimated around 60%.,
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,1.  Acquired absence of bilateral breast status post previous bilateral DIEP flap reconstruction.,2.  Bilateral breast asymmetry.,3.  Right breast macromastia.,4.  Right abdominal scar deformity.,5.  Left abdominal scar deformity.,6.  A 1.3 cm lesion right inferior breast.,7.  Lesion measuring 0.5 cm right inferior breast lateral.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,1.  Acquired absence of bilateral breast status post previous bilateral DIEP flap reconstruction.,2.  Bilateral breast asymmetry.,3.  Right breast macromastia.,4.  Right abdominal scar deformity.,5.  Left abdominal scar deformity.,6.  A 1.3 cm lesion right inferior breast.,7.  Lesion measuring 0.5 cm right inferior breast lateral.,PROCEDURES,1.  Left breast flap revision.,2.  Right breast flap revision.,3.  Right breast reduction mammoplasty.,4.  Right nipple reconstruction.,5.  Left abdominal scar deformity.,6.  Right abdominal scar deformity.,7.  Excision of right breast medial lesion enclosure.,8.  Excision of right breast lateral lesion enclosure.,ANESTHESIA:,  General.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,DRAINS:,  None.,SPECIMENS:,  Right breast skin and lesions x2.,COMPLICATIONS:, None.,INDICATIONS:,  This patient is a 54-year-old white female who presents for a revision of her previous bilateral breast reconstruction.  The patient had asymmetry as well as right breast hypertrophy, and therefore, the procedures named above were indicated.  The patient was informed about the possible risks and complications of the above procedures and gave an informed consent.,PROCEDURE:,  The patient was brought to the operating room, placed supine on the operative table.  After adequate endotracheal anesthesia was established and IV prophylactic antibiotics were given, the chest and abdomen were prepped and draped in standard surgical fashion.,Attention was first turned to the left breast where liposuction was performed laterally to allow for better contour and minimize the outer quadrant.  The incision was made for this and was then closed with 5-0 Prolene interrupted suture.,Attention was then turned to the right breast where liposuction was also performed to reduce the medial superior and lateral quadrants.  Once this was performed, the vertical reduction mammoplasty was outlined.  Prior to that, the nipple reconstruction was performed with a keyhole pattern flap.  The flap was elevated with 15-blade and hemostasis was then obtained with the Bovie.  The flap was then sutured onto itself and secured with 5-0 Prolene interrupted sutures.  Then the lateral and medial limbs were undermined to close the defect and this was performed with 3-0 Monocryl interrupted sutures.  Subsequently, the reduction mastectomy skin was then excised sharply and passed up the table marked and sent to Pathology. ,Hemostasis was then obtained with the Bovie and then undermining was performed in the medial, superior, and lateral skin to allow for closure of the reduction incisions.  Once this was performed, a 3-0 Monocryl interrupted sutures were used to close the inferior limb.  Subsequently 2-0 PDS continuous suture was then placed in the periareolar area to close the defect, with a diameter that equaled the new nipple areolar complex.  Once this was performed, the remaining incision was then closed with 3-0 Monocryl followed by 4-0 Monocryl subcuticular sutures.  Subsequently, the 2 lesions were excised, the larger one which was medial and the lateral one that was smaller that were excised sharply, passed up the table and sent to Pathology.  They were closed in 2 layers using 3-0 Monocryl followed by 4-0 Monocryl subcuticular suture.,Attention was then turned to the abdominal scars where liposuction and tumescent solution of diluted epinephrine were used to minimize the amount of excision that was required.  Subsequently the extra skin was excised sharply in an elliptical fashion on the right side measuring approximately 10 x 3 cm, this was the superior and inferior skin, was when undermined and closure was performed after hemostasis was obtained with 3-0 Monocryl followed by 4-0 Monocryl subcuticular suture.,Attention was then turned to the contralateral left side where there was a larger defect.  There was a larger excision required measuring approximately 15 x 3 cm.  The superior and inferior edges of skin were undermined and closed primarily using 3-0 Monocryl followed by 4-0 Monocryl subcuticular sutures.  Steri-Strips were placed on all incisions followed by surgical bra.,The patient tolerated the procedure well and was extubated without complications and transferred to the recovery room in stable condition.  All instruments, needle counts, and sponges were correct at the end of the case.
ADMITTING DIAGNOSES:,1.  Respiratory distress.,2.  Reactive airways disease.,DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Respiratory distress.,2.  Reactive airways disease.,3.  Pneumonia.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 3-year-old boy previously healthy who has never had a history of asthma or reactive airways disease who presented with a 36-hour presentation of URI symptoms, then had an abrupt onset of cough and increased work of breathing.  Child was brought to Children's Hospital and received nebulized treatments in the ER and the Hospitalist Service was contacted regarding admission.  The patient was seen and admitted through the emergency room.,He was placed on the hospitalist system and was started on continuous nebulized albuterol secondary to his respiratory distress.  He also received inhaled as well as systemic corticosteroids.  An x-ray was without infiltrate on initial review by the hospitalist, but there was a right upper lobe infiltrate versus atelectasis per the official radiology reading.  The patient was not started on any antibiotics and his fever resolved.  However, the CRP was relatively elevated at 6.7.  The CBC was normal with a white count of 9.6; however, the bands were 84%.  Given these results, which she is to treat the pneumonia as bacterial and discharge the child with amoxicillin and Zithromax.,He was taken off of continuous and he was not on room air all night.  In the morning, he still had some bilateral wheezing, but no tachypnea.,DISCHARGE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , ,GENERAL:  No acute distress, running around the room.,HEENT:  Oropharynx moist and clear.,NECK:  Supple without lymphadenopathy, thyromegaly or masses.,CHEST:  Bilateral basilar wheezing.  No distress.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No murmurs noted.  Well perfused peripherally.,ABDOMEN:  Bowel sounds present.  The abdomen is soft.  There is no hepatosplenomegaly, no masses.  Nontender to palpation.,GENITOURINARY:  Deferred.,EXTREMITIES:  Warm and well perfused.,DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:,  As follows:,1.  Activity, regular.,2.  Diet is regular.,3.  Follow up with Dr. X in 2 days.,DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:,1.  Xopenex MDI 2 puffs every 4 hours for 2 days and then as needed for cough or wheeze.,2.  QVAR 40, 2 puffs twice daily until otherwise instructed by the primary care provider.,3.  Amoxicillin 550 mg p.o. twice daily for 10 days.,4.  Zithromax 150 mg p.o. on day 1, then 75 mg p.o. daily for 4 more days.,Total time for this discharge 37 minutes.
PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Umbilical hernia repair.,PROCEDURE:,  After informed consent was obtained, the patient was brought to the operative suite and placed supine on the operating table.  The patient was sedated, and an adequate local anesthetic was administered using 1% lidocaine without epinephrine.  The patient was prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner.,A standard curvilinear umbilical incision was made, and dissection was carried down to the hernia sac using a combination of Metzenbaum scissors and Bovie electrocautery.  The sac was cleared of overlying adherent tissue, and the fascial defect was delineated.  The fascia was cleared of any adherent tissue for a distance of 1.5 cm from the defect.  The sac was then placed into the abdominal cavity and the defect was closed primarily using simple interrupted 0 Vicryl sutures.  The umbilicus was then re-formed using 4-0 Vicryl to tack the umbilical skin to the fascia.,The wound was then irrigated using sterile saline, and hemostasis was obtained using Bovie electrocautery.  The skin was approximated with 4-0 Vicryl in a subcuticular fashion.  The skin was prepped with benzoin, and Steri-Strips were applied.  A dressing was then applied.  All surgical counts were reported as correct.,Having tolerated the procedure well, the patient was subsequently taken to the recovery room in good and stable condition.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:, Left foot pain.,HISTORY:, XYZ is a basketball player for University of Houston who sustained an injury the day prior. They were traveling. He came down on another player's foot sustaining what he describes as an inversion injury. Swelling and pain onset immediately. He was taped but was able to continue playing He was examined by John Houston, the trainer, and had tenderness around the navicular so was asked to come over and see me for evaluation. He has been in a walking boot. He has been taped firmly. Pain with weightbearing activities. He is limping a bit. No significant foot injuries in the past. Most of his pain is located around the dorsal aspect of the hindfoot and midfoot. ,PHYSICAL EXAM:, He does have some swelling from the hindfoot out toward the midfoot. His arch is maintained. His motion at the ankle and subtalar joints is preserved. Forefoot motion is intact. He has pain with adduction and abduction across the hindfoot. Most of this discomfort is laterally. His motor strength is grossly intact. His sensation is intact, and his pulses are palpable and strong. His ankle is not tender. He has minimal to no tenderness over the ATFL. He has no medial tenderness along the deltoid or the medial malleolus. His anterior drawer is solid. His external rotation stress is not painful at the ankle. His tarsometatarsal joints, specifically 1, 2 and 3, are nontender. His maximal tenderness is located laterally along the calcaneocuboid joint and along the anterior process of the calcaneus. Some tenderness over the dorsolateral side of the talonavicular joint as well. The medial talonavicular joint is not tender.,RADIOGRAPHS:, Those done of his foot weightbearing show some changes over the dorsal aspect of the navicular that appear chronic. I don't see a definite fracture. The tarsometarsal joints are anatomically aligned. Radiographs of his ankle again show changes along the dorsal talonavicular joint but no other fractures identified. Review of an MR scan of the ankle dated 12/01/05 shows what looks like some changes along the lateral side of the calcaneocuboid joint with disruption of the lateral ligament and capsular area. Also some changes along the dorsal talonavicular joint. I don't see any significant marrow edema or definitive fracture line. ,IMPRESSION:,  Left Chopart joint sprain.,PLAN:,  I have spoken to XYZ about this. Continue with ice and boot for weightbearing activities. We will start him on a functional rehab program and progress him back to activities when his symptoms allow. He is clear on the prolonged duration of recovery for these hindfoot type injuries.
INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: , A 79-year-old Filipino woman referred for colonoscopy secondary to heme-positive stools.  Procedure done to rule out generalized diverticular change, colitis, and neoplasia.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , The patient was explained the procedure in detail, possible complications including infection, perforation, adverse reaction of medication, and bleeding.  Informed consent was signed by the patient.,With the patient in left decubitus position, had received a cumulative dose of 4 mg of Versed and 75 mg of Demerol, using Olympus video colonoscope under direct visualization was advanced to the cecum.  Photodocumentation of appendiceal orifice and the ileocecal valve obtained.  Cecum was slightly obscured with stool but the colon itself was adequately prepped.  There was no evidence of overt colitis, telangiectasia, or overt neoplasia.  There was moderately severe diverticular change, which was present throughout the colon and photodocumented.  The rectal mucosa was normal and retroflexed with mild internal hemorrhoids.  The patient tolerated the procedure well without any complications.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Colonoscopy to the cecum with adequate preparation.,2.  Long tortuous spastic colon.,3.  Moderately severe diverticular changes present throughout.,4.  Mild internal hemorrhoids.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1.  Clear liquid diet today.,2.  Follow up with primary care physician as scheduled from time to time.,3.  Increase fiber in diet, strongly consider fiber supplementation.
PROCEDURE: , Urgent cardiac catheterization with coronary angiogram.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was brought urgently to the cardiac cath lab from the emergency room with the patient being intubated with an abnormal EKG and a cardiac arrest.  The right groin was prepped and draped in usual manner.  Under 2% lidocaine anesthesia, the right femoral artery was entered.  A 6-French sheath was placed.  The patient was already on anticoagulation.  Selective coronary angiograms were then performed using a left and a 3DRC catheter.  The catheters were reviewed.  The catheters were then removed and an Angio-Seal was placed.  There was some hematoma at the cath site.,RESULTS,1.  The left main was free of disease.,2.  The left anterior descending and its branches were free of disease.,3.  The circumflex was free of disease.,4.  The right coronary artery was free of disease.  There was no gradient across the aortic valve.,IMPRESSION: , Normal coronary angiogram.,
REASON FOR CONSULTATION: , Congestive heart failure.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 75-year-old gentleman presented through the emergency room.  Symptoms are of shortness of breath, fatigue, and tiredness.  Main complaints are right-sided and abdominal pain.  Initial blood test in the emergency room showed elevated BNP suggestive of congestive heart failure.  Given history and his multiple risk factors and workup recently, which has been as mentioned below, the patient was admitted for further evaluation.  Incidentally, his x-ray confirms pneumonia.,CORONARY RISK FACTORS: , History of hypertension, no history of diabetes mellitus, active smoker, cholesterol elevated, questionable history of coronary artery disease, and family history is positive.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Positive for coronary artery disease.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: , The patient denies any major surgeries.,MEDICATIONS:  ,Aspirin, Coumadin adjusted dose, digoxin, isosorbide mononitrate 120 mg daily, Lasix, potassium supplementation, gemfibrozil 600 mg b.i.d., and metoprolol 100 mg b.i.d.,ALLERGIES: , None reported.,PERSONAL HISTORY:,  Married, active smoker, does not consume alcohol.  No history of recreational drug use.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Hypertension, hyperlipidemia, smoking history, coronary artery disease, cardiomyopathy, COPD, and presentation as above.  The patient is on anticoagulation on Coumadin, the patient does not recall the reason.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,CONSTITUTIONAL:  Weakness, fatigue, and tiredness.,HEENT:  History of blurry vision and hearing impaired.  No glaucoma.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Shortness of breath, congestive heart failure, and arrhythmia.  Prior history of chest pain.,RESPIRATORY:  Bronchitis and pneumonia.  No valley fever.,GASTROINTESTINAL:  No nausea, vomiting, hematemesis, melena, or abdominal pain.,UROLOGICAL:  No frequency or urgency.,MUSCULOSKELETAL:  No arthritis or muscle weakness.,SKIN:  Non-significant.,NEUROLOGICAL:  No TIA.  No CVA or seizure disorder.,ENDOCRINE:  Non-significant.,HEMATOLOGICAL:  Non-significant.,PSYCHOLOGICAL:  Anxiety.  No depression.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  Pulse of 60, blood pressure of 129/73, afebrile, and respiratory rate 16 per minute.,HEENT:  Atraumatic and normocephalic.,NECK:  Supple.  Neck veins flat.,LUNGS:  Air entry bilaterally decreased in the basilar areas with scattered rales, especially right side greater than left lung.,HEART:  PMI displaced.  S1 and S2, regular.  Systolic murmur.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.,EXTREMITIES:  Trace edema of the ankle.  Pulses are feebly palpable.  Clubbing plus.  No cyanosis.,CNS:  Grossly intact.,MUSCULOSKELETAL:  Arthritic changes.,PSYCHOLOGICAL:  Normal affect.,LABORATORY AND DIAGNOSTIC DATA: , EKG shows sinus bradycardia, intraventricular conduction defect.  Nonspecific ST-T changes.,Laboratories noted with H&H 10/32 and white count of 7.  INR 1.8.  BUN and creatinine within normal limits.  Cardiac enzyme profile first set 0.04, BNP of 10,000.,Nuclear myocardial perfusion scan with adenosine in the office done about a couple of weeks ago shows ejection fraction of 39% with inferior reversible defect.,IMPRESSION: , The patient is a 75-year-old gentleman admitted for:
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Right trigger thumb.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Right trigger thumb.,SURGERY: , Release of A1 pulley, CPT code 26055.,ANESTHESIA:,  General LMA.,TOURNIQUET TIME:  ,9 minutes at 200 torr.,FINDINGS:,  The patient was found to have limitations to extension at the IP joint to the right thumb.  He was found to have full extension after release of A1 pulley.,INDICATIONS:,  The patient is 2-1/2-year-old.  He has a history of a trigger thumb.  This was evaluated in the office.  He was indicated for release of A1 pulley to allow for full excursion.  Risks and benefits including recurrence, infection, and problems with anesthesia were discussed at length with the family.  They wanted to proceed.,PROCEDURE:,  The patient was brought into the operating room and placed on the operating table in supine position.  General anesthesia was induced without incident.  He was given a weight-adjusted dose of antibiotics.  The right upper extremity was then prepped and draped in a standard fashion.  Limb was exsanguinated with an Esmarch bandage.  Tourniquet was raised to 200 torr.  Transverse incision was then made at the base of thumb.  The underlying soft tissues were carefully spread in line longitudinally.  The underlying tendon was then identified.  The accompanied A1 pulley was also identified.  This was incised longitudinally using #11 blade.  Inspection of the entire tendon then demonstrated good motion both in flexion and extension.  The leaflets of the pulley were easily identified.,The wound was then irrigated and closed.  The skin was closed using interrupted #4-0 Monocryl simple sutures.  The area was injected with 5 mL of 0.25% Marcaine.  The wound was dressed with Xeroform, dry sterile dressings, hand dressing, Kerlix, and Coban.  The patient was awakened from anesthesia and taken to the recovery room in good condition.  There were no complications.  All instrument, sponge, needle counts were correct at the end of case.,PLAN: , The patient will be discharged home.  He will return in 1-1/2 weeks for wound inspection.
CC: ,Headache (HA),HX:, 10 y/o RHM awoke with a bilateral parieto-occipital HA associated with single episode of nausea and vomiting, 2 weeks prior to presentation. The nausea and vomiting resolved and did not recur. However, he continued to experience similar HA 3-4 times per week during the early morning upon awakening. He never felt the HA awakened him from sleep. The HA were partially relieved by Tylenol or Advil, and he distracted himself from the pain by remaining active. One week prior to presentation, he started to experience short episodes of blurred vision and diplopia. He also became fatigued, less active, and frequently yawned.,He had no prior history of HA and he and his family denied any sign or symptom of focal weakness or numbness, dysphagia, dysarthria, or loss of consciousness.,The patient underwent an MRI brain scan prior to transfer to UIHC. This revealed a mass in the left frontal region adjacent to the left temporal horn. The mass was an inhomogeneous blend of signals on T1 and T2 images giving a suggestion of acute bleeding, hemosiderin deposition and multiple vessels within the mass.,MEDS:, None.,PMH:, 1) He was a 7# 15oz. product of a full term, uncomplicated pregnancy and spontaneous vaginal delivery. His post-partum course was unremarkable. 2)Developmental milestones were reached at the appropriate times; though he was diagnosed with dyslexia 4 years ago. 3) No significant illnesses or hospitalizations.,FHX:, MGF (meningioma). PGF (lymphoma). Mother (migraine HA). Father and 22yr old brother are alive and well.,SHX: ,lives with parents and attends mainstream 5th grade classes.,EXAM:, BP124/93 HR96 RR20 37.9C (tympanic),MS:  A & O to person, place, time. Cooperative and interactive. Speech fluent and without dysarthria.,CN: EOM intact. VFFTC, Pupils 3/3 decreasing to 2/2 on exposure to light. Fundoscopy: optic disks flat, no evidence of hemorrhage. The rest of the CN exam was unremarkable.,MOTOR: full strength throughout all 4 extremities. Normal muscle tone and bulk.,Sensory: unremarkable.,Coord: unremarkable.,Station: no pronator drift or Romberg sign,Gait: unremarkable.,Reflexes: 2+ in RUE and RLE. 3 in LUE and LLE. Plantar responses were flexor, bilaterally.,HEENT: no meningismus. no cranial bruits. no skull defects palpated.,GEN EXAM: unremarkable.,COURSE:, GS, PT/PTT, CBC were unremarkable. The MRI finding above lead to a differential diagnosis of Venous Angioma, Arteriovenous Malformation, Ependymoma, Neurocytoma, Glioma: all with associated hemorrhage.,He underwent cerebral angiography on 1/25/93. Upon injection of the RCCA an avascular mass was identified in the right temporal lobe displacing the anterior choroidal artery, and temporal branches of the middle cerebral arteries. The internal cerebral vein is displaced to the left suggesting mass effect. There is a hypoplastic A1 segment and fetal origin of the LPCA. The mass was felt by neuroradiology to represent a hematoma.,He underwent a right frontal craniotomy, 1/28/93. Pathological evaluation of the resected tissue was consistent with a vascular malformation with inclusive reactive glial tissue and evidence of recurrent and remote hemorrhage. There were dilated vascular channels having walls of variable thickness, but without evidence of elastic lamina by elastic staining. This was consistent with venous angioma/malformation.
GENERAL REVIEW OF SYSTEMS,General:  No fevers, chills, or sweats.  No weight loss or weight gain.,Cardiovascular:  No exertional chest pain, orthopnea, PND, or pedal edema.  No palpitations.,Neurologic:  No paresis, paresthesias, or syncope.,Eyes:  No double vision or blurred vision.,Ears:  No tinnitus or decreased auditory acuity.,ENT:  No allergy symptoms, such as rhinorrhea or sneezing.,GI:  No indigestion, heartburn, or diarrhea.  No blood in the stools or black stools.  No change in bowel habits.,GU:  No dysuria, hematuria, or pyuria.  No polyuria or nocturia.  Denies slow urinary stream.,Psych:  No symptoms of depression or anxiety.,Pulmonary:  No wheezing, cough, or sputum production.,Skin:  No skin lesions or nonhealing lesions.,Musculoskeletal:  No joint pain, bone pain, or back pain.  No erythema at the joints.,Endocrine:  No heat or cold intolerance.  No polydipsia.,Hematologic:  No easy bruising or easy bleeding.  No swollen lymph nodes.,PHYSICAL EXAM,Vital: Blood pressure today was *, heart rate *, respiratory rate *.,Ears:  TMs intact bilaterally.  Throat is clear without hyperemia.,Mouth:  Mucous membranes normal.  Tongue normal.,Neck:  Supple; carotids 2+ bilaterally without bruits; no lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation; no dullness to percussion.,Heart:  Revealed a regular rhythm, normal S1 and S2.  No murmurs, clicks or gallops.,Abdomen:  Soft to palpation without guarding or rebound.  No masses or hepatosplenomegaly palpable.  Bowel sounds are normoactive.,Extremities:  bilaterally symmetrical.  Peripheral pulses 2+ in all extremities.  No pedal edema.,Neurologic examination:  Essentially intact including cranial nerves II through XII intact bilaterally.  Deep tendon reflexes 2+ and symmetrical.,Genitalia:  Bilaterally descended testes without tenderness or masses.  No hernias palpable.  Rectal examination revealed normal sphincter tone, no rectal mass.  Prostate was *.  Stool was Hemoccult negative.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: , MGUS.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  This is an extremely pleasant 86-year-old gentleman, who I follow for his MGUS.  I initially saw him for thrombocytopenia when his ANC was 1300.  A bone marrow biopsy was obtained.  Interestingly enough, at the time of his bone marrow biopsy, his hemoglobin was 13.0 and his white blood cell count was 6.5 with a platelet count of 484,000.  His bone marrow biopsy showed a normal cellular bone marrow; however, there were 10% plasma cells and we proceeded with the workup for a plasma cell dyscrasia.  All his tests came back as consistent with an MGUS.,Overall, he is doing well.  Since I last saw him, he tells me that he has had onset of atrial fibrillation.  He has now started going to the gym two times per week, and has lost over 10 pounds.  He has a good energy level and his ECOG performance status is 0.  He denies any fever, chills, or night sweats.  No lymphadenopathy.  No nausea or vomiting.  No change in bowel or bladder habits.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS: , Multivitamin q.d., aspirin one tablet q.d., Lupron q. three months, Flomax  0.4 mg q.d., and Warfarin 2.5 mg q.d.,ALLERGIES:  ,No known drug allergies.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , As per the HPI, otherwise negative.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,1.  He is status post left inguinal hernia repair.,2.  Prostate cancer diagnosed in December 2004, which was a Gleason 3+4.  He is now receiving Lupron.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , He has a very remote history of tobacco use.  He has one to two alcoholic drinks per day.  He is married.,FAMILY HISTORY: , His brother had prostate cancer.,PHYSICAL EXAM:,VIT:
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Acute cholecystitis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Acute gangrenous cholecystitis with cholelithiasis.,OPERATION PERFORMED: , Laparoscopic cholecystectomy with cholangiogram.,FINDINGS:  ,The patient had essentially a dead gallbladder with stones and positive wide bile/pus coming from the gallbladder.,COMPLICATIONS:  ,None.,EBL: , Scant.,SPECIMEN REMOVED: , Gallbladder with stones.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:  ,The patient was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion under general anesthesia.  A curvilinear incision was made below the umbilicus.  Through this incision, the camera port was able to be placed into the peritoneal cavity under direct visualization.  Once this complete, insufflation was begun.  Once insufflation was adequate, additional ports were placed in the epigastrium as well as right upper quadrant.  Once all four ports were placed, the right upper quadrant was then explored.  The patient had significant adhesions of omentum and colon to the liver, the gallbladder constituting definitely an acute cholecystitis.  This was taken down using Bovie cautery to free up visualization of the gallbladder.  The gallbladder was very thick and edematous and had frank necrosis of most of the anterior gallbladder wall.  Adhesions were further taken down between the omentum, the colon, and the gallbladder slowly starting superiorly and working inferiorly towards the cystic duct area.  Once the adhesions were fully removed, the cholangiogram was done which did not show any evidence of any common bile duct dilatation or obstruction.  At this point, due to the patient's gallbladder being very necrotic, it was deemed that the patient should have a drain placed.  The cystic duct and cystic artery were serially clipped and transected.  The gallbladder was removed from the gallbladder fossa removing the entire gallbladder.  Adequate hemostasis with Bovie cautery was achieved.  The gallbladder was then placed into a bag and removed from the peritoneal cavity through the camera port.  A JP drain was then run through the anterior port and out of one of the trochar sites and secured to the skin using 3-0 nylon suture.  Next, the right upper quadrant was copiously irrigated out using the suction irrigator.  Once this was complete, the additional ports were able to be removed.  The fascial opening at the umbilicus was reinforced by closing it using a 0 Vicryl suture in a figure-of-8 fashion.  All skin incisions were injected using Marcaine 1/4 percent plain.  The skin was reapproximated further using 4-0 Monocryl sutures in a subcuticular technique.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and was able to be transferred to the recovery room in stable condition.
EXAM:,  CT of the facial bones without contrast.,REASON FOR EXAM:,  Hit in nose.,COMPARISON EXAM: , Plain films of the same date.,TECHNIQUE: , Multidetector helicoaxial images were acquired in the axial plane and were reconstructed in bone and soft tissue algorithms for viewing in multiplanar format.,FINDINGS: , There is a fracture of the frontal process of the maxilla on both sides with displacement with angulation to the right and very minimal displacement of the distal fragments.  In addition, there is slight comminution of the right nasal bone without displacement.  The bony portion of the nasal septum is intact, although it is bowed to the left.  Soft tissue swelling is seen overlying the left side of the nose.  There is no nasoseptal hematoma.  Moderate mucosal thickening is seen in both maxillary sinuses.  The right maxillary sinus is hypoplastic.  Moderate mucosal thickening is seen in the left ethmoid sinus and marked mucosal thickening in the left sphenoid sinus.  The right sphenoid sinus is hypoplastic.  No abnormality of the orbits is seen.  The imaged portions of the brain are unremarkable.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Bilateral fractures of the frontal process of the maxilla and with displacement to the right.,2.  The findings were reported to Dr. Xyz of the emergency room on 04/30/07 at 1715 hours.
PROCEDURES UNDERTAKEN,1.  Left coronary system cineangiography.,2.  Right coronary system cineangiography.,3.  Cineangiography of SVG to OM.,4.  Cineangiography of LIMA to LAD.,5.  Left ventriculogram.,6.  Aortogram.,7.  Percutaneous intervention of the left circumflex and obtuse marginal branch with plano balloon angioplasty unable to pass stent.,NARRATIVE:,  After all risks and benefits were explained to the patient, informed consent was obtained.  The patient was brought to the cardiac catheterization suite.  The right groin was prepped in the usual sterile fashion.  Right common femoral artery was cannulated using a modified Seldinger technique and a long 6-French AO sheath was introduced secondary to tortuous aorta.  Next, Judkins left catheter was used to engage the left coronary system.  Cineangiography was recorded in multiple views.  Next, Judkins right catheter was used to engage the right coronary system.  Cineangiography was recorded in multiple views.  Next, the Judkins right catheter was used to engage the SVG to OM.  Cineangiography was recorded.  Next, the Judkins right was advanced into the left subclavian and exchanged over a long exchange length J-wire for a 4-French left internal mammary artery which was used to engage the LIMA graft to LAD and cineangiography was recorded in multiple views.  Next, an angled pigtail catheter was advanced into the left ventricular cavity.  LV pressures were measured.  LV gram was done and a pullback gradient across the aortic valve was done and recorded.  Next, an aortogram was done and recorded.  At this point, I decided to proceed with percutaneous intervention of the left circumflex.  Therefore, AVA 3.5 guide was used to engage the left coronary artery.  Angiomax bolus and drip was started.  Universal wire was advanced past the lesion and a 2.5-balloon was advanced first to the proximal lesions and predilations were done at 14 atmospheres and then to the distal lesion and predilatation was done at 12 atmospheres.  Next, we attempted to advance a 3.0 x 12 stent to the distal lesion; however, we were unable to pass the stent.  Next, second dilatations were done again with the 2.5 balloon at 18 atmospheres; however, we are unable to break the lesion.  We next attempted a cutting balloon.  Again, we are unable to cross the lesion, therefore a buddy wire technique was used with a PT choice support wire.  Again, we were unable to cross the lesion with the stent.  We then try to cross with a noncompliant balloon, which we were unsuccessful.  We also try to cutting balloon again, we were unsuccessful.  Despite multiple dilatations, we were unable to cross anything beyond the noncompliant balloon across the lesion; therefore, finally the procedure was aborted.  Final images showed no evidence of dissection, perforation, or further complication.  The right groin was filled after taking an image to confirm sheath placement above the bifurcation with excellent results.  The patient tolerated the procedure very well without complications, was taken off the operating table and transferred back to cardiac telemetry floor.,DIAGNOSTIC FINDINGS,1.  The LV.  LVEDP was 4.  LVES is approximately 50%-55% with inferobasal hypokinesis.  No significant MR. No gradient across the aortic valve.,2.  Aortogram.  The ascending aorta shows no significant dilatation or evidence of dissection.  The valve shows no significant aortic insufficiencies.  The abdominal aorta and distal aorta shows significant tortuosities.,3.  The left main.  The left main coronary artery is a large caliber vessel, bifurcating the LAD and left circumflex with some mild distal disease of about 10%-20%.,4.  Left circumflex.  The left circumflex vessel is a large caliber vessel gives off a distal branching obtuse marginal branch.  The upper pole of the OM shows retrograde filling of the distal graft and also at that point approximately a 70%-80% stenosis.  The mid left circumflex is a high-grade 80% diffuse tortuous stenosis.,5.  LAD.  The LAD is a totally 100% occluded vessel.  The LIMA to LAD is patent with only a small-to-moderate caliber LAD.  There is a large diagonal branch coming off the proximal portion of the LAD and that proximal LAD showed some diffuse disease upwards of 60%-70%.  The diagonal shows proximal 80% stenosis.,6.  The right coronary artery:  The right coronary artery is 100% occluded.  There are retrograde collaterals from left to right to the distal PDA and PLV branches.  The SVG to OM is 100% occluded at its take off.  The SVG to PDA is not found; however, presumed 100% occluded given that there is collateral flow to the distal right.,7.  LIMA to LAD is widely patent.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: , Attempted intervention to the left circumflex system, only able to perform plano balloon angioplasty, unable to pass stents, noncompliant balloons or cutting balloon.  Final images showed some improvement, however, continued residual stenosis.  At this point, the patient will be transferred back to telemetry floor and monitored.  We can attempt future intervention or continue aggressive medical management.  The patient continues to have residual stenosis in the diagonal; however, due to the length of this procedure, I did not attempt intervention to that diagonal branch.  Possible consideration would be a stress test as an outpatient depending on where patient shows ischemia, focus on treatment to that lesion.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Left undescended testis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Left undescended testis plus left inguinal hernia.,PROCEDURES:,  Left inguinal hernia repair, left orchiopexy with 0.25% Marcaine, ilioinguinal nerve block and wound block at 0.5% Marcaine plain.,ABNORMAL FINDINGS:,  A high left undescended testis with a type III epididymal attachment along with vas.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:,  Less than 5 mL.,FLUIDS RECEIVED:  ,1100 mL of crystalloid.,TUBES/DRAINS: , No tubes or drains were used.,COUNTS:,  Sponge and needle counts were correct x2.,SPECIMENS,:  No tissues sent to Pathology.,ANESTHESIA:,  General inhalational anesthetic.,INDICATIONS FOR OPERATION: , The patient is an 11-1/2-year-old boy with an undescended testis on the left.  The plan is for repair.,DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION:,  The patient was taken to the operating room, where surgical consent, operative site, and patient identification were verified.  Once he was anesthetized, he was then placed in a supine position, and sterilely prepped and draped.  A superior curvilinear scrotal incision was then made in the left hemiscrotum with a 15-blade knife and further extended with electrocautery into the subcutaneous tissue.  We then used the curved cryoclamp to dissect into the scrotal space and found the tunica vaginalis and dissected this up to the external ring.  We were able to dissect all the way up to the ring, but were unable to get the testis delivered.  We then made a left inguinal incision with a 15-blade knife, further extending with electrocautery through Scarpa fascia down to the external oblique fascia.  The testis again was not visualized in the external ring, so we brought the sac up from the scrotum into the inguinal incision and then incised the external oblique fascia with a 15-blade knife further extending with Metzenbaum scissors.  The testis itself was quite high up in the upper canal.  We then dissected the gubernacular structures off of the testis, and also, then opened the sac, and dissected the sac off and found that he had a communicating hernia hydrocele and dissected the sac off with curved and straight mosquitos and a straight Joseph scissors.  Once this was dissected off and up towards the internal ring, it was twisted upon itself and suture ligated with an 0 Vicryl suture.  We then dissected the lateral spermatic fascia, and then, using blunt dissection, dissected in the retroperitoneal space to get more cord length.  We also dissected the sac from the peritoneal reflection up into the abdomen once it had been tied off.  We then found that we had an adequate amount of cord length to get the testis in the mid-to-low scrotum.  The patient was found to have a type III epididymal attachment with a long looping vas, and we brought the testis into the scrotum in the proper orientation and tacked it to mid-to-low scrotum with a 4-0 chromic stay stitch.  The upper aspect of the subdartos pouch was closed with a 4-0 chromic pursestring suture.  The testis was then placed into the scrotum in the proper orientation.  We then placed the local anesthetic, and the ilioinguinal nerve block, and placed a small amount in both incisional areas as well.  We then closed the external oblique fascia with a running suture of 0-Vicryl ensuring that the ilioinguinal nerve and cord structures were not bottom closure.  The Scarpa fascia was closed with a 4-0 chromic suture, and the skin was closed with a 4-0 Rapide subcuticular closure.  Dermabond tissue adhesive was placed on the both incisions, and IV Toradol was given at the end of the procedure.  The patient tolerated the procedure well, was in a stable condition upon transfer to the recovery room.
SUBJECTIVE:,  Patient presents with Mom and Dad for her 5-year 3-month well-child check.  Family has not concerns stating patient has been doing well overall since last visit.  Taking in a well-balanced diet consisting of milk and dairy products, fruits, vegetables, proteins and grains with minimal junk food and snack food.  No behavioral concerns.  Gets along well with peers as well as adults.  Is excited to start kindergarten this upcoming school year.  Does attend daycare.  Normal voiding and stooling pattern.  No concerns with hearing or vision.  Sees the dentist regularly.  Growth and development:  Denver II normal passing all developmental milestones per age in areas of fine motor, gross motor, personal and social interaction and speech and language development.  See Denver II form in the chart.,ALLERGIES:,  None.,MEDICATIONS: , None.,FAMILY SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Unchanged since last checkup.  Lives at home with mother, father and sibling.  No smoking in the home.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  As per HPI; otherwise negative.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Weight 43 pounds.  Height 42-1/4 inches.  Temperature 97.7.  Blood pressure 90/64.,General:  Well-developed, well-nourished, cooperative, alert and interactive 5-year -3month-old white female in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Atraumatic, normocephalic.  Pupils equal, round and reactive.  Sclerae clear.  Red reflex present bilaterally.  Extraocular muscles intact.  TMs clear bilaterally.  Oropharynx:  Mucous membranes moist and pink.  Good dentition.,Neck:  Supple, no lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No wheeze or crackles.  Good air exchange.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No murmur.  Good pulses bilaterally.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender.  Nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.  No masses or organomegaly.,GU:  Tanner I female genitalia.  Femoral pulses equal bilaterally.  No rash.,Extremities:  Full range of motion.  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.,Back:  Straight.  No scoliosis.,Integument:  Warm, dry and pink without lesions.,Neurological:  Alert.  Good muscle tone and strength.  Cranial nerves II-XII grossly intact.  DTRs 2+/4+ bilaterally.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1. Well 5-year 3-month-old white female.,2. Anticipatory guidance for growth and diet development and safety issues as well as immunizations.  Will receive MMR, DTaP and IPV today.  Discussed risks and benefits as well as possible side effects and symptomatic treatment.  Gave 5-year well-child check handout to mom.  Completed school pre-participation physical.  Copy in the chart.  Completed vision and hearing screening.  Reviewed results with family.,3. Follow up in one year for next well-child check or as needed for acute care.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Right renal stone.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  ,Right renal stone.,PROCEDURE: , Right shockwave lithotripsy, cystoscopy, and stent removal x2.,ANESTHESIA: , LMA.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:,  Minimal.  The patient was given antibiotics preoperatively.,HISTORY: , This is a 47-year-old male who presented with right renal stone and right UPJ stone.  The right UPJ stone was removed using ureteroscopy and laser lithotripsy and the stone in the kidney.  The plan was for shockwave lithotripsy.  The patient had duplicated system on the right side.  Risk of anesthesia, bleeding, infection, pain, MI, DVT, PE was discussed.  Options such as watchful waiting, passing the stone on its own, and shockwave lithotripsy were discussed.  The patient wanted to proceed with the shockwave to break the stone into small pieces as possible to allow the stones to pass easily.  Consent was obtained.,DETAILS OF THE OPERATION:  ,The patient was brought to the OR.  Anesthesia was applied.  The patient was placed in the supine position.  Using Dornier lithotriptor total of 2500 shocks were applied.  Energy levels were slowly started at O2 increased up to 7; gradually the stone seem to have broken into smaller pieces as the number of shocks went up.  The shocks were started at 60 per minute and slowly increased up to 90 per minute.  The patient's heart rate and blood pressure were stable throughout the entire procedure.,After the end of the shockwave lithotripsy the patient was placed in dorsal lithotomy position.  The patient was prepped and draped in usual sterile fashion and cystoscopy was done.  Using graspers, the stent was grasped x2 and pulled out, both stents were removed.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  The patient was brought to recovery in stable condition.  The plan was for the patient to follow up with us and plan for KUB in about two to three months.
FINDINGS:,There is a lobulated mass lesion of the epiglottis measuring approximately 22 x 16 x 30 mm (mediolateral x AP x craniocaudal) in size. There is slightly greater involvement on the right side however there is bilateral involvement of the aryepiglottic folds. There is marked enlargement of the bilateral aryepiglottic folds (left greater than right). There is thickening of the glossoepiglottic fold. There is an infiltrative mass like lesion extending into the pre-epiglottic space.,There is no demonstrated effacement of the piriform sinuses. The mass obliterates the right vallecula. The paraglottic spaces are normal. The true and false cords appear normal. Normal thyroid, cricoid and arytenoid cartilages.,There is lobulated thickening of the right side of the tongue base, for which invasion of the tongue cannot be excluded. A MRI examination would be of benefit for further evaluation of this finding.,There is a 14 x 5 x 12 mm node involving the left submental region (Level I).,There is borderline enlargement of the bilateral jugulodigastric nodes (Level II). The left jugulodigastric node,measures 14 x 11 x 8 mm while the right jugulodigastric node measures 15 x 12 x 8 mm.,There is an enlarged second left high deep cervical node measuring 19 x 14 x 15 mm also consistent with a left Level II node, with a probable necrotic center.,There is an enlarged second right high deep cervical node measuring 12 x 10 x 10 mm but no demonstrated central necrosis.,There is an enlarged left mid level deep cervical node measuring 9 x 16 x 6 mm, located inferior to the hyoid bone but cephalad to the cricoid consistent with a Level III node.,There are two enlarged matted nodes involving the right mid level deep cervical chain consistent with a right Level III nodal disease, producing a conglomerate nodal mass measuring approximately 26 x 12 x 10 mm.,There is a left low level deep cervical node lying along the inferior edge of the cricoid cartilage measuring approximately 18 x 11 x 14 mm consistent with left Level IV nodal disease.,There is no demonstrated pretracheal, prelaryngeal or superior mediastinal nodes. There is no demonstrated retropharyngeal adenopathy.,There is thickening of the adenoidal pad without a mass lesion of the nasopharynx. The torus tubarius and fossa of Rosenmuller appear normal.,IMPRESSION:,Epiglottic mass lesion with probable invasion of the glossoepiglottic fold and pre-epiglottic space with invasion of the bilateral aryepiglottic folds.,Lobulated tongue base for which tongue invasion cannot be excluded. An MRI may be of benefit for further assessment of this finding.,Borderline enlargement of a submental node suggesting Level I adenopathy.,Bilateral deep cervical nodal disease involving bilateral Level II, Level III and left Level IV.
PROBLEM:  ,Prescription evaluation for Crohn's disease., ,HISTORY: , This is a 46-year-old male who is here for a refill of Imuran.  He is taking it at a dose of 100 mg per day.  He is status post resection of the terminal ileum and has experienced intermittent obstructive symptoms for the past several years.  In fact, he had an episode three weeks ago in which he was seen at the emergency room after experiencing sudden onset of abdominal pain and vomiting. An x-ray was performed, which showed no signs of obstruction per his report.  He thinks that the inciting factor of this incident was too many grapes eaten the day before.  He has had similar symptoms suggestive of obstruction when eating oranges or other high-residue fruits in the past.  The patient's normal bowel pattern is loose stools and this is unchanged recently.  He has not had any rectal bleeding. He asks today about a rope-like vein on his anterior right arm that has been a little tender and enlarged after he was in the emergency room and they had difficulty with IV insertion.  He has not had any fever, red streaking up the arm, or enlargement of lymph nodes.  The tenderness has now completely resolved.  , ,He had a colonoscopy performed in August of 2003, by Dr. S.  An anastomotic stricture was found at the terminal ileum/cecum junction.  Dr. S recommended that if the patient experienced crampy abdominal pain or other symptoms of obstruction, that he may consider balloon dilation.  No active Crohn's disease was found during the colonoscopy.  , ,Earlier this year, he experienced a non-specific hepatitis with elevation of his liver function tests.  At that time he was taking a lot of Tylenol for migraine-type headaches.  Under Dr. S's recommendation, he stopped the Imuran for one month and reduced his dose of Tylenol.  Since that time his liver enzymes have normalized and he has restarted the Imuran with no problems.  , ,He also reports heartburn that is occurring on a slightly more frequent basis than it has in the past.  It used to occur once a week only, but has now increased in frequency to twice a week.  He takes over-the-counter H2 blockers as needed, as well as Tums.  He associates the onset of his symptoms with eating spicy Mexican food., ,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Reviewed and unchanged.,ALLERGIES: , No known allergies to medications.,OPERATIONS: , Unchanged.,ILLNESSES: , Crohn's disease, vitamin B12 deficiency.,MEDICATIONS:,  Imuran, Nascobal, Vicodin p.r.n., ,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , Dated 08/04/04 is reviewed and noted.  Please see pertinent GI issues as discussed above.  Otherwise unremarkable., ,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  , GENERAL:  Pleasant male in no acute distress.  Well nourished and well developed. SKIN: indurated, cord-like superficial vein on the right anterior forearm, approx. 3 cm in length.  Non-tender to palpation. No erythema or red streaking.  No edema. LYMPH:  No epitrochlear or axillary lymph node enlargement or tenderness on the right side. , ,DATA REVIEWED: Labs from June 8th and July 19th reviewed.  Liver function tests normal with AST 14 and ALT 44.  WBCs were slightly low at 4.8.  Hemoglobin dropped slightly from 14.1 on 6/8 to 12.9 on 7/19. Hematocrit dropped slightly as well from 43.2 on 6/804 to 40.0 on 7/19/04.  These results were reviewed by Dr. S and lab results letter sent., ,IMPRESSION:  ,1. Crohn's disease, status post terminal ileum resection, on Imuran.  Intermittent symptoms of bowel obstruction.  Last episode three weeks ago.,2.  History of non-specific hepatitis while taking high doses of Tylenol.  Now resolved. ,2.  Increased frequency of reflux symptoms.,3.  Superficial thrombophlebitis, resolving. ,4.  Slightly low H&H., ,PLAN:  ,1.  We discussed Dr. S's recommendation that the patient undergo balloon dilation for recurrent bowel obstruction type symptoms.  The patient emphatically states that he does not want to consider dilation at this time.  The patient is strongly encouraged to call us when he does experience any obstructive symptoms, including abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, or change in bowel habits.  He states understanding of this. Advised to maintain low residue diet to avoid obstructions. ,2.  Continue with liver panel and ABC every month per Dr. S's instructions.,3.  Continue Imuran 100 mg per day.,4.  Continue to minimize Tylenol use.  The patient is wondering if he can take another type of medication for migraines that is not Tylenol or antiinflammatories or aspirin.  Dr. S is consulted and agrees that Imitrex is an acceptable alternative for migraine headaches since he does not have advanced liver disease. The patient will make an appointment with his primary care provider to discuss this further. ,5.  Reviewed the importance of prophylactic treatment of reflux-type symptoms.  Encouraged the patient to take over-the-counter H2 blockers on a daily basis to prevent symptoms from occurring.  The patient will try this and if he remains symptomatic, then he will call our office and a prescription for Zantac 150 mg per day will be provided.  Reviewed the potential need for upper endoscopy should his symptoms continue or become more frequent.  He does not want to undergo any type of procedure such as that at this time.,6.
The patient's abdomen was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  A subumbilical skin incision was made.  The Veress needle was inserted, and the patient's abdominal cavity was insufflated with moderate pressure all times.  A subumbilical trocar was inserted.  The camera was inserted in the panoramic view.  The abdomen demonstrated some inflammation around the gallbladder.  A 10-mm midepigastric trocar was inserted.  A. 2 mm and 5 mm trocars were inserted.  The most lateral trocar grasping forceps was inserted and grasped the fundus of the gallbladder and placed in tension at liver edge.,Using the dissector, the cystic duct was identified and double Hemoclips were invited well away from the cystic-common duct junction.  The cystic artery was identified and double Hemoclips applied.  The gallbladder was taken down from the liver bed using Endoshears and electrocautery.  Hemostasis was obtained.  The gallbladder was removed from the midepigastric trocar site without difficulty.  The trocars were removed and the skin incisions were reapproximated using 4-0 Monocryl.  Steri-Strips and sterile dressing were placed.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and was taken to the recovery room in stable condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Intrauterine pregnancy at term with previous cesarean section.,SECONDARY DIAGNOSES,1.  Desires permanent sterilization.,2.  Macrosomia.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES,1.  Desires permanent sterilization.,2.  Macrosomia.,3.  Status post repeat low transverse cesarean and bilateral tubal ligation.,PROCEDURES,1.  Repeat low transverse cesarean section.,2.  Bilateral tubal ligation (BTL).,ANESTHESIA: , Spinal.,FINDINGS:,  A viable female infant weighing 7 pounds 10 ounces, assigned Apgars of 9 and 9.  There was normal pelvic anatomy, normal tubes.  The placenta was normal in appearance with a three-vessel cord.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:,  Patient was brought to the operating room with an IV running and a Foley catheter in place, satisfactory spinal anesthesia was administered following which a wedge was placed under the right hip.  The abdomen was prepped and draped in a sterile fashion.  A Pfannenstiel incision was made and carried sharply down to the level of fascia.  The fascia was incised transversely.  The fascia was dissected away from the underlying rectus muscles.  With sharp and blunt dissection, rectus muscles were divided in midline.  The perineum was entered bluntly.  The incision was carried vertically with scissors.  Transverse incision was made across the bladder peritoneum.  The bladder was dissected away from the underlying lower uterine segment.  Bladder retractor was placed to protect the bladder.  The lower uterine segment was entered sharply with a scalpel.  Incision was carried transversely with bandage scissors.  Clear amniotic fluids were encountered.  The infant was out of the pelvis and was in oblique vertex presentation.  The head was brought down into the incision and delivered easily as were the shoulders and body.  The mouth and oropharynx were suctioned vigorously.  The cord was clamped and cut.  The infant was passed off to the waiting pediatrician in satisfactory condition.  Cord bloods were taken.,Placenta was delivered spontaneously and found to be intact.  Uterus was explored and found to be empty.  Uterus was delivered through the abdominal incision and massaged vigorously.  Intravenous Pitocin was administered.  T clamps were placed about the margins of the uterine incision, which was closed primarily with a running locking stitch of 0 Vicryl with adequate hemostasis.  Secondary running locking stitch was placed for extra strength to the wound.  At this point, attention was diverted to the patient's tubes, a Babcock clamp grasped the isthmic portion of each tube and approximately 1-cm knuckle on either side was tied off with two lengths of 0 plain catgut.  Intervening knuckle was excised and passed off the field.  The proximal end of the tubal mucosa was cauterized.  Cul-de-sac and gutters were suctioned vigorously.  The uterus was returned to its proper anatomic position in the abdomen.  The fascia was closed with a simple running stitch of 0 PDS.,The skin was closed with running subcuticular of 4-0 Monocryl.  Uterus was expressed of its contents.  Patient was brought to the recovery room in satisfactory condition.  There were no complications.  There was 600 cc of blood loss.  All sponge, needle, and instrument counts were reported to be correct.,SPECIMEN: , Tubal segments.,DRAIN: , Foley catheter draining clear yellow urine.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Benign prostatic hypertrophy.,2.  Urinary retention.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Benign prostatic hypertrophy.,2.  Urinary retention.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Cystourethroscopy.,2.  Transurethral resection of prostate (TURP).,ANESTHESIA:  ,Spinal.,DRAIN: , A #24 French three-way Foley catheter.,SPECIMENS: , Prostatic resection chips.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:  ,150 cc.,DISPOSITION:  ,The patient was transferred to the PACU in stable condition.,INDICATIONS AND FINDINGS:  ,This is an 84-year-old male with history of BPH and subsequent urinary retention with failure of trial of void, scheduled for elective TURP procedure.,FINDINGS: , At the time of surgery, cystourethroscopy revealed trilobar enlargement of the prostate with prostatic varices of the median lobe.  Cystoscopy showed a few cellules of the bladder with no obvious bladder tumors noted.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , After informed consent was obtained, the patient was moved to operating room and spinal anesthesia was induced by the Department of Anesthesia.  The patient was prepped and draped in the normal sterile fashion and a #21 French cystoscope inserted into urethra and into the bladder.  Cystoscopy performed with the above findings.  Cystoscope was removed.  A #27 French resectoscope with a #26 cutting loop was inserted into the bladder.  Verumontanum was identified as a landmark and systematic transurethral resection of the prostate tissue was undertaken in an circumferential fashion with good resection of tissue completed.  ________ irrigator was used to evacuate the bladder of prostatic chips.  Resectoscope was then inserted and any residual chips were removed in piecemeal fashion with a resectoscope loop.  Any obvious bleeding from the prostatic fossa was controlled with electrocautery.  Resectoscope was removed.  A #24 French three-way Foley catheter inserted into the urethra and into the bladder.  Bladder was irrigated and connected to three-way irrigation.  The patient was cleaned and sent to recovery in stable condition to be admitted overnight for continuous bladder irrigation and postop monitoring.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: , Burn, right arm.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , This is a Workers' Compensation injury.  This patient, a 41 year-old male, was at a coffee shop, where he works as a cook, and hot oil splashed onto his arm, burning from the elbow to the wrist on the medial aspect.  He has had it cooled, and presents with his friend to the Emergency Department for care.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  ,Noncontributory.,MEDICATIONS:  ,None.,ALLERGIES:  ,None.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , GENERAL:  Well-developed, well-nourished 21-year-old male adult who is appropriate and cooperative.  His only injury is to the right upper extremity.  There are first and second degree burns on the right forearm, ranging from the elbow to the wrist.  Second degree areas with blistering are scattered through the medial aspect of the forearm.  There is no circumferential burn, and I see no areas of deeper burn.  The patient moves his hands well.  Pulses are good.  Circulation to the hand is fine.,FINAL DIAGNOSIS:,1.  First-degree and second-degree burns, right arm secondary to hot oil spill.,2.  Workers' Compensation industrial injury.,TREATMENT: , The wound is cooled and cleansed with soaking in antiseptic solution.  The patient was ordered Demerol 50 mg IM for pain, but he refused and did not want pain medication.  A burn dressing is applied with Neosporin ointment.  The patient is given Tylenol No. 3, tabs #4, to take home with him and take one or two every four hours p.r.n. for pain.  He is to return tomorrow for a dressing change.  Tetanus immunization is up to date.  Preprinted instructions are given.  Workers' Compensation first report and work status report are completed.,DISPOSITION: , Home.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,This is a 53-year-old man, who presented to emergency room with multiple complaints including pain from his hernia, some question of blood in his stool, nausea, and vomiting, and also left lower extremity pain.  At the time of my exam, he states that his left lower extremity pain has improved considerably.  He apparently had more significant paresthesias in the past and now he feels that the paresthesias have improved considerably.  He does have a history of multiple medical problems including atrial fibrillation, he is on Coumadin, which is currently subtherapeutic, multiple CVAs in the past, peripheral vascular disease, and congestive heart failure.  He has multiple chronic history of previous ischemia of his large bowel in the past.,PHYSICAL EXAM,VITAL SIGNS:  Currently his temperature is 98.2, pulse is 95, and blood pressure is 138/98.,HEENT:  Unremarkable.,LUNGS:  Clear.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  An irregular rhythm.,ABDOMEN:  Soft.,EXTREMITIES:  His upper extremities are well perfused.  He has palpable radial and femoral pulses.  He does not have any palpable pedal pulses in either right or left lower extremity.  He does have reasonable capillary refill in both feet.  He has about one second capillary refill on both the right hand and left lower extremities and his left foot is perhaps little cool, but it is relatively warm.  Apparently, this was lot worst few hours ago.  He describes significant pain and pallor, which he feels has improved and certainly clinically at this point does not appear to be as significant.,IMPRESSION AND PLAN: , This gentleman with a history of multiple comorbidities as detailed above had what sounds clinically like acute exacerbation of chronic peripheral vascular disease, essentially related to spasm versus a small clot, which may have been lysed to some extent.  He currently has a viable extremity and viable foot, but certainly has significant making compromised flow.  It is unclear to me whether this is chronic or acute, and whether he is a candidate for any type of intervention.  He certainly would benefit from an angiogram to better to define his anatomy and anticoagulation in the meantime.  Given his potential history of recent lower GI bleeding, he has been evaluated by GI to see whether or not he is a candidate for heparinization.  We will order an angiogram for the next few hours and followup on those results to better define his anatomy and to determine whether or not if any interventions are appropriate.  Again, at this point, he has no pain, relatively rapid capillary refill, and relatively normal motor function suggesting a viable extremity.  We will follow him along closely.
Grade II:  Atherosclerotic plaques are seen which appear to be causing 40-60% obstruction.,Grade III:  Atherosclerotic plaques are seen which appear to be causing greater than 60% obstruction.,Grade IV:  The vessel is not pulsating and the artery appears to be totally obstructed with no blood flow in it.,RIGHT CAROTID SYSTEM: , The common carotid artery and bulb area shows mild intimal thickening with no increase in velocity and no evidence for any obstructive disease.  The internal carotid artery shows intimal thickening with some mixed plaques, but no increase in velocity and no evidence for any significant obstructive disease.  The external carotid artery shows no disease.  The vertebral was present and was antegrade.,LEFT CAROTID SYSTEM: , The common carotid artery and bulb area shows mild intimal thickening, but no increase in velocity and no evidence for any significant obstructive disease. the internal carotid artery shows some intimal thickening with mixed plaques, but no increase in velocity and no evidence for any significant obstructive disease.  The external carotid artery shows no disease.  The vertebral was present and was antegrade.,IMPRESSION:,  Bilateral atherosclerotic changes with no evidence for any significant obstructive disease.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS (ES):,1. Cholelithiasis.,2. Cholecystitis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS (ES):,1. Acute perforated gangrenous cholecystitis.,2. Cholelithiasis.,PROCEDURE:,1. Attempted laparoscopic cholecystectomy.,2. Open cholecystectomy.,ANESTHESIA:, General endotracheal anesthesia.,COUNTS:, Correct.,COMPLICATIONS:, None apparent.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:, 275 mL.,SPECIMENS:,1. Gallbladder.,2. Lymph node.,DRAINS:, One 19-French round Blake.,DESCRIPTION OF THE OPERATION:, After consent was obtained and the patient was properly identified, the patient was transported to the operating room and after induction of general endotracheal anesthesia, the patient was prepped and draped in a normal sterile fashion.,After infiltration with local, a vertical incision was made at the umbilicus and utilizing graspers, the underlying fascia was incised and was divided sharply. Dissecting further, the peritoneal cavity was entered. Once this done, a Hasson trocar was secured with #1 Vicryl and the abdomen was insufflated without difficulty. A camera was placed into the abdomen and there was noted to be omentum overlying the subhepatic space. A second trocar was placed in the standard fashion in the subxiphoid area; this was a 10/12 mm non-bladed trocar. Once this was done, a grasper was used to try and mobilize the omentum and a second grasper was added in the right costal margin; this was a 5-mm port placed, it was non-bladed and placed in the usual fashion under direct visualization without difficulty. A grasper was used to mobilize free the omentum which was acutely friable and after a significant time-consuming effort was made to mobilize the omentum, it was clear that the gallbladder was well incorporated by the omentum and it would be unsafe to proceed with a laparoscopy procedure and then the procedure was converted to open.,The trocars were removed and a right subcostal incision was made incorporating the 10/12 subxiphoid port. The subcutaneous space was divided with electrocautery, as well as the muscles and fascia. The Bookwalter retraction system was then set up and retractors were placed to provide exposure to the right subhepatic space. Then utilizing a right-angle and electrocautery, the omentum was freed from the gallbladder. An ensuing retrograde cholecystectomy was performed, in which, electrocautery and blunt dissection were used to mobilize the gallbladder from the gallbladder fossa; this was done down to the infundibulum. After meticulous dissection, the cystic artery was identified and it was ligated between 3-0 silks. Several other small ties were placed on smaller bleeding vessels and the cystic duct was identified, was skeletonized, and a 3-0 stick tie was placed on the proximal portion of it. After it was divided, the gallbladder was freed from the field.,Once this was done, the liver bed was inspected for hemostasis and this was achieved with electrocautery. Copious irrigation was also used. A 19-French Blake drain was placed in Morrison's pouch lateral to the gallbladder fossa and was secured in place with 2-0 nylon; this was a 19-French round Blake. Once this was done, the umbilical port was closed with #1 Vicryl in an interrupted fashion and then the wound was closed in two layers with #1 Vicryl in an interrupted fashion. The skin was closed with and absorbable stitch.,The patient was then awakened from anesthesia, extubated, and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.
CC:, Transient visual field loss.,HX: ,This 58 y/o RHF had a 2 yr h/o increasing gait difficulty which she attributed to generalized weakness and occasional visual obscurations. She was evaluated by a local physician several days prior to this presentation (1/7/91), for clumsiness of her right hand and falling. HCT and MRI brain revealed bilateral posterior clinoid masses.,MEDS:, Colace, Quinidine, Synthroid, Lasix, Lanoxin, KCL, Elavil, Tenormin.,PMH: ,1) Obesity.  2) VBG, 1990.  3) A-Fib. 4) HTN.  5) Hypothyroidism.  6) Hypercholesterolemia. 7) Briquet's syndrome: h/o of hysterical paralysis. 8) CLL, dx 1989; in 1992 presented with left neck lymphadenopathy and received 5 cycles of chlorambucil/prednisone chemotherapy; 10/95 parotid gland biopsy was consistent with CLL and she received 5 more cycles of chlorambucil/prednisone; 1/10/96, she received 3000cGy to right parotid mass. 9) SNHL,FHX:, Father died, MI age 61.,SHX:, Denied Tobacco/ETOH/illicit drug use.,EXAM:, Vitals were unremarkable.,The neurologic exam was unremarkable except for obesity and mild decreased PP about the right upper and lower face, diffusely about the left upper and lower face, per neurosurgery notes. The neuro-ophthalmologic exam was unremarkable, per Neuro-ophthalmology.,COURSE:, She underwent Cerebral Angiography on 1/8/91. This revealed a 15x17x20mm LICA paraclinoid/ophthalmic artery aneurysm and a 5x7mm RICA paraclinoid/ophthalmic artery aneurysm. On 1/16/91 she underwent a left frontotemporal craniotomy and exploration of the left aneurysm. The aneurysm neck went into the cavernous sinus and was unclippable so it was wrapped. She has complained of headaches since.
PROBLEMS LIST:,1.  Type 1 diabetes mellitus, insulin pump requiring.,2.  Chronic kidney disease, stage III.,3.  Sweet syndrome.,4.  Hypertension.,5.  Dyslipidemia.,6.  Osteoporosis.,7.  Anemia.,8.  A 25-hydroxy-vitamin D deficiency.,9.  Peripheral neuropathy manifested by insensate feet.,10.  Hypothyroidism.,11.  Diabetic retinopathy.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  This is a return visit to the renal clinic for the patient where she is followed up for diabetes and kidney disease management.  Her last visit to this clinic was approximately three months ago.  Since that time, the patient states that she has had some variability in her glucose control too largely to recent upper and lower respiratory illnesses.  She did not seek attention for these, and the symptoms have begun to subside on their own and in the meantime, she continues to have some difficulties with blood sugar management.  Her 14-day average is 191.  She had a high blood sugar this morning, which she attributed to a problem with her infusion set; however, in the clinic after an appropriate correction bolus, she subsequently became quite low.  She was treated appropriately with glucose and crackers, and her blood sugar came back up to over 100.  She was able to manage this completely on her own.  In the meantime, she is not having any other medical problems that have interfered with glucose control.  Her diet has been a little bit different in that she had been away visiting with her family for some period of time as well.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,1.  A number of topical creams for her rash.,2.  Hydroxyzine 25 mg 4 times a day.,3.  Claritin 5 mg a day.,4.  Fluoxetine 20 mg a day.,5.  Ergocalciferol 800 international units a day.,6.  Protonix 40 mg a day.,7.  Iron sulfate 1.2 cc every day.,8.  Actonel 35 mg once a week.,9.  Zantac 150 mg daily.,10.  Calcium carbonate 500 mg 3 times a day.,11.  NovoLog insulin via insulin pump about 30 units of insulin daily.,12.  Zocor 40 mg a day.,13.  Valsartan 80 mg daily.,14.  Amlodipine 5 mg a day.,15.  Plavix 75 mg a day.,16.  Aspirin 81 mg a day.,17.  Lasix 20 mg a day.,18.  Levothyroxine 75 micrograms a day.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , Really not much change.  Her upper respiratory symptoms have resolved.  She is not describing fevers, chills, sweats, nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea or abdominal pain.  She is not having any decreased appetite.  She is not having painful urination, any blood in the urine, frequency or hesitancy.  She is not having polyuria, polydipsia or polyphagia.  Her visual acuity has declined, but she does not appear to have any acute change.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 36.1, pulse 56, respirations 16, blood pressure 117/48, and weight is 109.7 pounds.  HEENT:  Examination found her to be atraumatic and normocephalic.  She has pupils that are equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular muscles intact.  Sclerae and conjunctivae are clear.  The paranasal sinuses are nontender.  The nose is patent.  The external auditory canal and tympanic membranes are clear A.U.  Oral cavity and oropharynx examination is free of lesions.  The mucosus membranes are moist.  NECK:  Supple.  There is no lymphadenopathy.  There is no thyromegaly.  THORAX:  Reveals lungs that are clear, PA and lateral, without adventitious sounds.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  Demonstrated regular rate and rhythm.  EXTREMITIES:  Reveal no edema and is otherwise deferred.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: , This is a return visit to the renal clinic for the patient with history as noted above.  She has had variability in her glucose control, and the plan today is to continue her current regimen, which includes the following:  Basal rate, 12 a.m. 0.6 units per hour, 4 a.m. 0.7 units per hour, and 9 a.m. 0.6 units per hour.  Her target pre-meal is 120 and bedtime is 150.  Her insulin/carbohydrate ratio is 10 and her correction factor is 60.  We are not going to make any changes to her insulin pump settings at this time.  I have encouraged her to watch the number of processed high-calorie foods that she is consuming late at night.  She has agreed to try that and cut back on this a little bit.  I want to get fasting labs to include her standard labs for us today but include a fasting C-peptide and a hemoglobin A1C, so that we can make arrangements for her to get an upgraded insulin pump.  She states to me that she has been having some battery problems in the recent past, although she says the last time that she went four weeks without having to change batteries and that is about the appropriate amount of time.  Nonetheless, she is out of warranty and we will try to get her a new pump.,Plan to see the patient back here in approximately two months, and we will try to get the new pump through Medicare.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Bladder laceration.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Bladder laceration.,NAME OF OPERATION: , Closure of bladder laceration.,FINDINGS:,  The patient was undergoing a cesarean section for twins.  During the course of the procedure, a bladder laceration was notices and urology was consulted.  Findings were a laceration on the dome of the bladder.,PROCEDURE: , Initially there as a mucosal layer of suture already placed.  This was done with 3-0 chromic catgut.  The bladder was distended and, while the bladder was distended with physiologic saline, a second layer of 3-0 chromic catgut created a watertight closure.  The second layer included the mucosa an dinner layer of the detrusor muscle.  A third layer of 2-0 Dexon was used.  Each of these were placed in a continuous running-locked suture technique.  There was complete watertight closure of the bladder.  Hemostasis was assured and a Jackson-Pratt drain was brought out through a separate stab wound.  The remaining portion of the operation, both the cesarean section and the wound closure, will be dictated by Dr. Redmond.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  The patient is well known to me for a history of iron-deficiency anemia due to chronic blood loss from colitis.  We corrected her hematocrit last year with intravenous (IV) iron.  Ultimately, she had a total proctocolectomy done on 03/14/2007 to treat her colitis.  Her course has been very complicated since then with needing multiple surgeries for removal of hematoma.  This is partly because she was on anticoagulation for a right arm deep venous thrombosis (DVT) she had early this year, complicated by septic phlebitis.,Chart was reviewed, and I will not reiterate her complex history.,I am asked to see the patient again because of concerns for coagulopathy.,She had surgery again last month to evacuate a pelvic hematoma, and was found to have vancomycin resistant enterococcus, for which she is on multiple antibiotics and followed by infectious disease now.,She is on total parenteral nutrition (TPN) as well.,LABORATORY DATA:,  Labs today showed a white blood count of 7.9, hemoglobin 11.0, hematocrit 32.8, and platelets 1,121,000.  MCV is 89.  Her platelets have been elevated for at least the past week, with counts initially at the 600,000 to 700,000 range and in the last couple of day rising above 1,000,000.  Her hematocrit has been essentially stable for the past month or so.  White blood count has improved.,PT has been markedly elevated and today is 44.9 with an INR of 5.0.  This is despite stopping Coumadin on 05/31/2007, and with administration of vitamin K via the TPN, as well as additional doses IV.  The PT is slightly improved over the last few days, being high at 65.0 with an INR of 7.3 yesterday.,PTT has not been checked since 05/18/2007 and was normal then at 28.,LFTs have been elevated.  ALT is 100, AST 57, GGT 226, alkaline phosphatase 505, albumin low at 3.3, uric acid high at 4.9, bilirubin normal, LDH normal, and pre-albumin low at 16.  Creatinine is at 1.5, with an estimated creatinine clearance low at 41.7.  Other electrolytes are fairly normal.,B12 was assessed on 05/19/2007 and was normal at 941.  Folic acid was normal.  Iron saturation has not been checked since March, and was normal then.  Ferritin has not been checked in a couple of months.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS: , Erythropoietin 45,000 units every week, started 05/16/2007.  She is on heparin flushes, loperamide, niacin, pantoprazole, Diovan, Afrin nasal spray, caspofungin, daptomycin, Ertapenem, fentanyl or morphine p.r.n. pain, and Compazine or Zofran p.r.n. nausea.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: ,GENERAL:  She is alert, and frustrated with her prolonged hospital stay.  She notes that she had epistaxis a few days ago, requiring nasal packing and fortunately that had resolved now.,VITAL SIGNS:  Today, temperature is 98.5, pulse 99, respirations 16, blood pressure 105/65, and pulse is 95.  She is not requiring oxygen.,SKIN:  No significant ecchymoses are noted.,ABDOMEN:  Ileostomy is in place, with greenish black liquid output.  Midline surgical scar has healed well, with a dressing in place in the middle, with no bleeding noted.,EXTREMITIES:  She has no peripheral edema.,CARDIAC:  Regular rate.,LYMPHATICS:  No adenopathy is noted.,LUNGS:  Clear bilaterally.,IMPRESSION AND PLAN:,  Markedly elevated PT/INR despite stopping Coumadin and administering vitamin K.  I will check mixing studies to see if she has deficiency, which could be due to poor production given her elevated LFTs, decreased albumin, and decreased pre-albumin.,It is possible that she has an inhibitor, which would have to be an acquired inhibitor, generally presenting with an elevated PTT and not PT.  I will check a PTT and check mixing studies if that is prolonged.  It is doubtful that she has a lupus anticoagulant since she has been presenting with bleeding symptoms rather than clotting.  I agree with continuing off of anticoagulation for now.,She has markedly elevated platelet count.  I suspect this is likely reactive to infection, and not from a new myeloproliferative disorder.,Anemia has been stable, and is multifactorial.  Given her decreased creatinine clearance, I agree with erythropoietin support.  She was iron deficient last year, and with her multiple surgeries and poor p.o. intake, may have become iron deficient again.  She has had part of her small bowel removed, so there may be a component of poor absorption as well.  If she is iron deficient, this may contribute also to her elevated platelet counts.  I will check a ferritin.  This may be difficult to interpret because of inflammation.  If it is decreased, plan will be to add iron supplementation intravenously.  If it is elevated, we could consider a bone marrow biopsy to evaluate her iron stores, and also assess her myelopoiesis given the markedly elevated platelet counts.,She needs continued treatment as you are for her infections.,I will discuss the case with Dr. X as well since there is a question as to whether she might need additional surgery.  She is not a surgical candidate now with her elevated PT/INR.
PRESENT COMPLAINTS: , The patient is reporting ongoing, chronic right-sided back pain, pain that radiates down her right leg intermittently.  She is having difficulty with bending and stooping maneuvers.  She cannot lift heavy objects.  She states she continues to have pain in her right neck and pain in her right upper extremity.  She has difficulty with pushing and pulling and lifting with her right arm.  She describes an intermittent tingling sensation in the volar aspect of her right hand.  She states she has diminished grip strength in her right hand because of wrist pain complaints.  She states that the Wellbutrin samples I had given her previously for depression seem to be helping.  Her affect appears appropriate.  She reports no suicidal ideation.  She states she continues to use Naprosyn as an anti-inflammatory, Biofreeze ointment over her neck and shoulder and back areas of complaints.  She also takes Imitrex occasionally for headache complaints related to her neck pain.  She also takes Flexeril occasionally for back spasms and Darvocet for pain.  She is asking for a refill on some of her medications today.  She is relating a VAS pain score regarding her lower back at a 6-7/10 and regarding her neck about 3/10, and regarding her right upper extremity about a 4/10., ,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , She is afebrile.  Blood pressure is 106/68, pulse of 64, respirations of 20.  Her physical exam is unchanged from 03/21/05.  Her orthopedic exam reveals full range of motion of the cervical spine.  Cervical compression test is negative.  Valsalva's maneuver is negative.  Hoffmann's sign is negative.  DTRs are +1 at the biceps, brachioradialis and trapezius bilaterally.  Her sensation is grossly intact to the upper extremity dermatomes.  Motor strength appears 5/5 strength in the upper extremity muscle groups tested.,Phalen's and Tinel's signs are negative at both wrists.  Passive range of motion of the right wrist is painful for her.  Passive range of motion of the left wrist is non painful.  Active range of motion of both wrists and hands are full.  She is right hand dominant.  Circumferential measurements were taken in her upper extremities.  She is 11" in the right biceps, 10 1/2" in the left biceps.  She is 9 3/4" in both right and left forearms.  Circumferential measurements were also taken of the lower extremities.  She is 21" at both the right and left thighs, 15" in both the right and left calves.  Jamar dynamometry was assessed on three tries in this right-hand-dominant individual.  She is 42/40/40 pounds on the right hand with good effort, and on the left is 60/62/60 pounds, suggesting a loss of at least 20% to 25% pre-injury grip strength in the right dominant hand.  , ,Examination of her lumbar trunk reveals decreased range of motion, flexion allowing her fingertips about 12" from touching the floor.  Lumbar extension is to 30 degrees.  The right SLR is limited to about 80 degrees, provoking back pain, with a positive Bragard's maneuver, causing pain to radiate to the back of the thigh.  The left SLR is to 90 degrees without back pain.  DTRs are +1 at the knees and ankles.  Toes are downgoing to plantar reflexes bilaterally.  Sensation is grossly intact in the lower extremity dermatomes.  Motor strength appears 5/5 strength in the lower extremity muscle groups tested., ,IMPRESSION: , (1)  Sprain/strain injury to the lumbosacral spine with lumbar disc herniation at L5-S1, with radicular symptoms in the right leg. (2)  Cervical sprain/strain with myofascial dysfunction. (3)  Thoracic sprain/strain with myofascial dysfunction. (4)  Probable chronic tendonitis of the right wrist.  She has negative nerve conduction studies of the right upper extremity. (5)  Intermittent headaches, possibly migraine component, possibly cervical tension cephalalgia-type headaches or cervicogenic headaches., ,TREATMENT / PROCEDURE: , I reviewed some neck and back exercises. , ,RX:, I dispensed Naprosyn 500 mg b.i.d. as an anti-inflammatory.  I refilled Darvocet N-100, one tablet q.4-6 hours prn pain, #60 tablets, and Flexeril 10 mg t.i.d. prn spasms, #90 tablets, and dispensed some Wellbutrin XL tablets, 150-mg XL tablet q.a.m., #30 tablets., ,PLAN / RECOMMENDATIONS:,  I told the patient to continue her medication course per above.  It seems to be helping with some of her pain complaints.  I told her I will pursue trying to get a lumbar epidural steroid injection authorized for her back and right leg symptoms.  I told her in my opinion I would declare her Permanent and Stationary as of today, on 04/18/05 with regards to her industrial injuries of 05/16/03 and 02/10/04.  , ,I understand her industrial injury of 05/16/03 is related to an injury at Home Depot where she worked as a credit manager.  She had a stack of screen doors fall, hitting her on the head, weighing about 60 pounds, knocking her to the ground.  She had onset of headaches and neck pain, and pain complaints about her right upper extremity.  She also has a second injury, dated 02/10/04, when apparently a co-worker was goofing around and apparently kicked her in the back accidentally, causing severe onset of back pain.  , ,FACTORS FOR DISABILITY:,OBJECTIVE:  ,1.  She exhibits decreased range of motion in the lumbar trunk.,2.  She has an abnormal MRI revealing a disc herniation at L5-S1.,3.  She exhibits diminished grip strength in the right arm and upper extremity., ,SUBJECTIVE: ,1.  Based on her headache complaints alone, would be considered occasional and minimal to slight at best. ,2.  With regards to her neck pain complaints, these would be considered occasional and slight at best. ,3.  Regarding her lower back pain complaints, would be considered frequent and slight at rest, with an increase to a moderate level of pain with repetitive bending and stooping and heavy lifting, and prolonged standing. ,4.  Regarding her right upper extremity and wrist pain complaints, these would be considered occasional and slight at rest, but increasing to slight to moderate with repetitive gripping, grasping, and torquing maneuvers of her right upper extremity. ,LOSS OF PRE-INJURY CAPACITY: , The patient advises that prior to her industrial dates of injury she was capable of repetitively bending and stooping and lifting at least 60 pounds.  She states she now has difficulty lifting more than 10 or 15 pounds without exacerbating back pain.  She has trouble trying to repetitively push or pull, torque, twist and lift with the right upper extremity, due to wrist pain, which she did not have prior to her industrial injury dates.  She also relates headaches, which she did not have prior to her industrial injury.  , ,WORK RESTRICTIONS AND DISABILITY: , I would find it reasonable to place some permanent restrictions on this patient.  It is my opinion she has a disability precluding heavy work, which contemplates the individual has lost approximately half of her pre-injury capacity for performing such activities as bending, stooping, lifting, pushing, pulling and climbing or other activities involving comparable physical effort.  The patient should probably no lift more than 15 to 20 pounds maximally.  She should probably not repetitively bend or stoop.  She should avoid repetitive pushing, pulling or torquing maneuvers, as well as gripping and grasping maneuvers of the right hand.  She should probably not lift more than 10 pounds repetitively with the right upper extremity.  I suspect that prior to her industrial she could lift repetitively and push, pull, torque and twist at least 20 to 25 pounds with the right upper extremity.  , ,CAUSATION AND APPORTIONMENT:, With regards to issues of causation, they appear appropriate to her industrial injuries and histories given per the 05/16/03 and the 02/10/04 injuries., ,With regards issues of apportionment, it is my opinion that 100% of her pain complaints are industrially related to her industrial injuries of 05/16/03 and 02/10/04.  There does not appear to be any apportionable issues here.
CC: ,Sensory loss.,HX: ,25y/o RHF began experiencing pruritus in the RUE, above the elbow and in the right scapular region, on 10/23/92. In addition she had paresthesias in the proximal BLE and toes of the right foot. Her symptoms resolved the following day. On 10/25/92, she awoke in the morning and her legs felt "asleep" with decreased sensation. The sensory loss gradually progressed rostrally to the mid chest. She felt unsteady on her feet and had difficulty ambulating. In addition she also began to experience pain in the right scapular region. She denied any heat or cold intolerance, fatigue, weight loss.,MEDS:, None.,PMH:, Unremarkable.,FHX: ,GF with CAD, otherwise unremarkable.,SHX:, Married, unemployed. 2 children. Patient was born and raised in Iowa. Denied any h/o Tobacco/ETOH/illicit drug use.,EXAM:,  BP121/66 HR77 RR14 36.5C,MS: A&O to person, place and time. Speech normal with logical lucid thought process.,CN: mild optic disk pallor OS. No RAPD. EOM full and smooth. No INO. The rest of the CN exam was unremarkable.,MOTOR: Full strength throughout all extremities except for 5/4+ hip extensors. Normal muscle tone and bulk.,Sensory: Decreased PP/LT below T4-5 on the left side down to the feet. Decreased PP/LT/VIB in BLE (left worse than right). Allodynic in RUE.,Coord: Intact FNF, HKS and RAM, bilaterally.,Station: No pronator drift. Romberg's test not documented.,Gait: Unsteady wide-based. Able to TT and HW. Poor TW.,Reflexes: 3/3 BUE. Hoffman's signs were present bilaterally. 4/4 patellae. 3+/3+ Achilles with 3-4 beat nonsustained clonus. Plantar responses were extensor on the right and flexor on the left.,Gen. Exam: Unremarkable.,COURSE:, CBC, GS, PT, PTT, ESR, FT4, TSH, ANA, Vit B12, Folate, VDRL and Urinalysis were normal. MRI T-spine, 10/27/92, was unremarkable. MRI Brain, 10/28/92, revealed multiple areas of abnormally increased signal on T2 weighted images in the white matter regions of the right corpus callosum, periventricular region, brachium pontis and right pons. The appearance of the lesions was felt to be strongly suggestive of multiple sclerosis. 10/28/92, Lumbar puncture revealed the following CSF results: RBC 1, WBC 9 (8 lymphocytes, 1 histiocyte), Glucose 55mg/dl, Protein 46mg/dl (normal 15-45), CSF IgG 7.5mg/dl (normal 0.0-6.2), CSF IgG index 1.3 (normal 0.0-0.7), agarose gel electrophoresis revealed oligoclonal bands in the gamma region which were not seen on the serum sample. Beta-2 microglobulin was unremarkable. An abnormal left tibial somatosensory evoked potential was noted consistent with central conduction slowing. Visual and Brainstem Auditory evoked potentials were normal. HTLV-1 titers were negative. CSF cultures and cytology were negative. She was not treated with medications as her symptoms were primarily sensory and non-debilitating, and she was discharged home.,She returned on 11/7/92 as her symptoms of RUE dysesthesia, lower extremity paresthesia and weakness, all worsened. On 11/6/92, she developed slow slurred speech and had marked difficulty expressing her thoughts. She also began having difficulty emptying her bladder. Her 11/7/92 exam was notable for normal vital signs, lying motionless with eyes open and nodding and rhythmically blinking every few minutes. She was oriented to place and time of day, but not to season, day of the week and she did not know who she was. She had a leftward gaze preference and right lower facial weakness. Her RLE was spastic with sustained ankle clonus. There was dysesthetic sensory perception in the RUE. Jaw jerk and glabellar sign were present.,MRI brain, 11/7/92, revealed multiple enhancing lesions in the peritrigonal region and white matter of the centrum semiovale. The right peritrigonal region is more prominent than on prior study. The left centrum semiovale lesion has less enhancement than previously. Multiple other white matter lesions are demonstrated on the right side, in the posterior limb of the internal capsule, the anterior periventricular white matter, optic radiations and cerebellum. The peritrigonal lesions on both sides have increased in size since the 10/92 MRI. The findings were felt more consistent with demyelinating disease and less likely glioma. Post-viral encephalitis, Rapidly progressive demyelinating disease and tumor were in the differential diagnosis. Lumbar Puncture, 11/8/92, revealed: RBC 2, WBC 12 (12 lymphocytes), Glucose 57, Protein 51 (elevated), cytology and cultures were negative. HIV 1 titer was negative. Urine drug screen, negative. A stereotactic brain biopsy of the right parieto-occipital region was consistent with demyelinating disease. She was treated with Decadron 6mg IV qhours and Cytoxan 0.75gm/m2 (1.25gm). On 12/3/92, she has a focal motor seizure with rhythmic jerking of the LUE, loss of consciousness and rightward eye deviation. EEG revealed diffuse slowing with frequent right-sided sharp discharges. She was placed on Dilantin. She became depressed.
without difficulty, into the upper GI tract.  The anatomy and mucosa of the esophagus, gastroesophageal junction, stomach, pylorus, and small bowel were all carefully inspected.  All structures were visually normal in appearance.  Biopsies of the distal duodenum, gastric antrum, and distal esophagus were taken and sent for pathological evaluation.  The endoscope and insufflated air were slowly removed from the upper GI tract.  A repeat look at the structures involved again showed no visible abnormalities, except for the biopsy sites.,The patient tolerated the procedure with excellent comfort and stable vital signs.  After a recovery period in the Endoscopy Suite, the patient is discharged to continue recovering in the family's care at home.  The family knows to follow up with me today if there are concerns about the patient's recovery,from the procedure.  They will follow up with me later this week for biopsy and CLO test results so that appropriate further diagnostic and therapeutic plans can be made.,
ANGINA, is chest pain due to a lack of oxygen to the heart most often occurring in men age 35 or older and postmenopausal women.  It is usually located right under the breast bone.  Physical and emotional stress, as well as eating heavy meals, can bring it on.  In a healthy person, these stresses are easily handled.  In a person with an underlying heart condition like coronary artery disease, heart valve problem, arrhythmias or high blood pressure, the heart doesn't get enough blood (i.e. not enough oxygen to the heart muscles).  Other causes could be due to a hyperactive thyroid disorder or anemia.  People more likely to have angina may also have diabetes mellitus, be overweight, smoke, have a poor diet with lots of salt and fat, fail to exercise, have a stressful workload or have a family history of coronary artery disease.,SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS:,*  Pain in chest described as tightness, heavy pressure, aching or squeezing.,*  The pain sometimes radiates to the jaw, left arm, teeth and/or outer ear.,*  Possibly a left-sided numbness, tingling, or pain in the arm, shoulder, elbow or chest.,*  Occasionally a sudden difficulty in breathing occurs.,*  Pain may be located between the shoulder blades.,TREATMENT:,*  Nitroglycerin relieves the immediate symptoms of angina in seconds.  Carry it with you at all times.,*  Other medications may be prescribed for the underlying heart problems.  It is important to take them as prescribed by your doctor.,*  Surgery may be necessary to open the blocked coronary arteries (balloon angioplasty) or to bypass them.,*  Correct the contributing factors you have control over.  Lose weight, don't smoke, eat a low-salt, low-fat diet and avoid physical and emotional stresses that cause angina.  Such stressors include anger, overworking, going between extremes in hot and cold, sudden physical exertion and high altitudes (pressurized airplanes aren't a risk).  Practice relaxation techniques.,*  Exercise! Discuss first what you are able to do with your doctor and then go do it.,*  Even with treatment, angina may result in a heart attack, congestive heart failure or a fatal abnormal heartbeat.  Treatment decreases the odds that these will occur.,*  Let your doctor know if your angina doesn't go away after 10 minutes, even when you have taken a nitroglycerin tablet.  Call if you have repeated chest pains that awaken you from sleep regardless if the nitroglycerin helps.  If your pain changes or feels different, call your doctor or call 911 if the pain is severe.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  This is a 41-year-old registered nurse (R.N.).  She was admitted following an overdose of citalopram and warfarin.  The patient has had increasing depression and has been under stress as a result of dissolution of her second marriage.  She notes starting in January, her husband of five years seemed to be quite withdrawn.  It turned out, he was having an affair with one of her best friends and he subsequently moved in with this woman.  The patient is distressed, as over the five years of their marriage, she has gotten herself into considerable debt supporting him and trying to find a career that would work for him.  They had moved to ABCD where he had recently been employed as a restaurant manager.  She also moved her mother and son out there and is feeling understandably upset that he was being dishonest and deceitful with her.  She has history of seasonal affective disorder, winter depressions, characterized by increased sleep, increased irritability, impatience, and fatigue.  Some suggestion on her part that her father may have had some mild bipolar disorder and including the patient has a cyclical and recurrent mood disorder.  In January, she went on citalopram.  She reports since that time, she has lost 40 pounds of weight, has trouble sleeping at night, thinks perhaps her mood got worse on the citalopram, which is possible, though it is also possible that the progressive nature of getting divorce than financial problems has contributed to her worsening mood.,PAST AND DEVELOPMENTAL HISTORY: , She was born in XYZ.  She describes the family as being somewhat dysfunctional.  Father was a truckdriver.  She is an only child.  She reports that she had a history of anorexia and bulimia as a teenager.  In her 20s, she served six years in Naval Reserve.  She was previously married for four years.  She described that as an abusive relationship.  She had a history of being in counseling with ABC, but does not think this therapist, who is now by her estimate 80 years old, is still in practice.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  ,GENERAL:  This is an alert and cooperative woman.,VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 98.1, pulse 60, respirations 18, blood pressure 95/54, oxygen saturation 95%, and weight is 132.,PSYCHIATRIC:  She makes good eye contact.  Speech is normal in rate, volume, grammar, and vocabulary.  There is no thought disorder.  She denies being suicidal.  Her affect is appropriate for material being discussed.  She has a sense of future, wants to get back to work, has plans to return to counseling.  She appeared to have normal orientation, concentration, memory, and judgment.,Medical history is notable for factor V Leiden deficiency, history of pulmonary embolus, restless legs syndrome.  She has been off her Mirapex.  I did encourage her to go back on the Mirapex, which would likely lead to some improvement in mood by facilitating better sleep.,The patient at this time can contract for safety.  She has made plans for outpatient counseling this Saturday and we will get a referral to a psychiatrist for which she is agreeable to following up with.,LABORATORY DATA: , INR, which is still 8.8.  In 1998, she had a normal MRI.  Electrolytes, BUN, creatinine, and CBC were all normal.,DIAGNOSES:  ,1.  Seasonal depressive disorder.,2.  Restless legs syndrome.,3.  Overdose of citalopram and warfarin.,RECOMMENDATIONS: , The patient reports she has been feeling better since discontinuing antidepressants.  I, therefore, recommend she stay off antidepressants at present.  If needed, she can take Prozac, which has been effective for her in the past and she plans to see a psychiatrist for consultation.  She does give a fairly good history of seasonal depression and given that her mood has improved in the past with Prozac, this will be an appropriate agent to try as needed in the future, but given the situational nature of the depression, she primarily appears to need counseling.,Please feel free to contact me at digital pager if there is additional information I can provide.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:  ,Followup diabetes mellitus, type 1., ,SUBJECTIVE:,  Patient is a 34-year-old male with significant diabetic neuropathy.  He has been off on insurance for over a year.  Has been using NPH and Regular insulin to maintain his blood sugars.  States that he is deathly afraid of having a low blood sugar due to motor vehicle accident he was in several years ago.  Reports that his blood sugar dropped too low which caused the accident.  Since this point in time, he has been unwilling to let his blood sugars fall within a normal range, for fear of hypoglycemia. Also reports that he regulates his blood sugars with how he feels, rarely checking his blood sugar with a glucometer., ,Reports that he has been worked up extensively at hospital and was seeing an Endocrinologist at one time.  Reports that he had some indications of kidney damage when first diagnosed.  His urine microalbumin today is 100.  His last hemoglobin A1C drawn at the end of December is 11.9.  Reports that at one point, he was on Lantus which worked well and he did not worry about his blood sugars dropping too low. While using Lantus, he was able to get his hemoglobin A1C down to 7.  His last CMP shows an elevated alkaline phosphatase level of 168. He denies alcohol or drug use and is a non smoker.  Reports he quit drinking 3 years ago. I have discussed with patient that it would be appropriate to do an SGGT and hepatic panel today.  Patient also has a history of gastroparesis and impotence.  Patient requests Nexium and Viagra, neither of which are covered under the Health Plan.  , ,Patient reports that he was in a scooter accident one week ago, fell off his scooter, hit his head.  Was not wearing a helmet.  Reports that he did not go to the emergency room and had a headache for several days after this incident.  Reports that an ambulance arrived at the scene and he was told he had a scalp laceration and to go into the emergency room.  Patient did not comply.  Reports that the headache has resolved.  Denies any dizziness, nausea, vomiting, or other neurological abnormalities., ,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , WD, WN.  Slender, 34-year-old white male.  VITAL SIGNS:  Blood sugar 145, blood pressure 120/88, heart rate 104, respirations 16.  Microalbumin 100. SKIN:  There appears to be 2 skin lacerations on the left parietal region of the scalp, each approximately 1 inch long.  No signs of infection.  Wound is closed with new granulation tissue.  Appears to be healing well.  HEENT:  Normocephalic.  PERRLA.  EOMI.  TMs pearly gray with landmarks present.  Nares patent.  Throat with no redness or swelling.  Nontender sinuses.  NECK:  Supple.  Full ROM.  No LAD. CARDIAC:
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Bilateral axillary masses, rule out recurrent Hodgkin's disease.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  ,Bilateral axillary masses, rule out recurrent Hodgkin's disease.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Left axillary dissection with incision and drainage of left axillary mass.,2.  Right axillary mass excision and incision and drainage.,ANESTHESIA: , LMA.,SPECIMENS:,  Left axillary mass with nodes and right axillary mass.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:  ,Less than 30 cc.,INDICATION: , This 56-year-old male presents to surgical office with history of bilateral axillary masses.  Upon evaluation, it was noted that the patient has draining bilateral masses with the left mass being approximately 8 cm in diameter upon palpation and the right being approximately 4 cm in diameter.  The patient had been continued on antibiotics preoperatively.  The patient with history of Hodgkin's lymphoma approximately 18 years ago and underwent therapy at that time and he was declared free of disease since that time.  Consent for possible recurrence of Hodgkin's lymphoma warranted exploration and excision of these masses.  The patient was explained the risks and benefits of the procedure and informed consent was obtained.,GROSS FINDINGS: , Upon dissection of the left axillary mass, the mass was removed in toto and noted to have a cavity within it consistent with an abscess.,No loose structures were identified and sent for frozen section, which upon intraoperative consultation with Pathology Department revealed no obvious evidence of lymphoma, however, the confirmed pathology report is pending at this time.  The right axillary mass was excised without difficulty without requiring full axillary dissection.,PROCEDURE: , The patient was placed in supine position after appropriate anesthesia was obtained and a sterile prep and drape complete.  A #10 blade scalpel was used to make an elliptical incision about the mass itself extending this incision further to aid in the mobilization of the mass.  Sharp dissection was utilized with Metzenbaum scissors about the mass to maintain the injury to the skin structure and upon showing out the mass, Bovie electrocautery was utilized adjacent to the wall structure to maintain hemostasis.  Identification of the axillary anatomy was made and care was made to avoid injury to nerve, vessel or musculature.  Once this mass was removed in toto, lymph node structures were as well delivered with this mass and sent to frozen section as well the specimen was sent to gram stain and culture.  Upon revaluation of the incisional site, it was noted to be hemostatic.  Warm lap sponge was then left in place at this site.  Next, attention was turned to the right axilla where a #10 blade scalpel was used to make a 4 cm incision about the mass including the cutaneous structures involved with the erythematous reaction.  This was as well removed in toto and sent to Pathology for gram stain and culture as well as pathologic evaluation.  This site was then made hemostatic as well with the aid of Bovie electrocautery and approximation of the deep dermal tissues after irrigation with warm saline was then done with #3-0 Vicryl suture followed by #4-0 Vicryl running subcuticular stitch.  Steri-Strips were applied.  Attention was returned back left axilla, which upon re-exploration was noted to be hemostatic and a #7 mm JP was then introduced making a skin stab inferior to the incision and bringing the end of the drain through this incision.  This was placed within the incision site, ________ drainage of the axillary potential space.  Approximation of the deep dermal tissues were then done with #3-0 Vicryl in an interrupted technique followed by #4-0 Vicryl with running subcuticular technique.  Steri-Strips and sterile dressings were applied.  JP bulb was then placed to suction and sterile dressings were applied to both axilla.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and sent to postanesthesia care unit in a stable condition.  He will be discharged to home upon ability of the patient to have pain tolerance with Vicodin 1-2 as needed every six hours for pain and continue on Keflex antibiotics until gram stain culture proves otherwise.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Multiple complex lacerations of the periorbital area.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Multiple complex lacerations of the periorbital area.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,  Closure of multiple complex lacerations.,ANESTHESIA: , Local 1% with epinephrine.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Minimal.,SPECIMEN: , None.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,HISTORY:,  The patient is a 19-year-old Caucasian male who presented status post a bicycle versus MVA.  The patient obtained multiple complex lacerations of the right periorbital area.,PROCEDURE: , Informed consent was properly obtained from the patient and he was placed in a 45-degree angle.  Topical viscous lidocaine was applied for pain management and then 1% epinephrine was injected into the periorbital area for anesthetic effect.  A #5-0 Vicryl suture was used to close the deep layers and then #6-0 Prolene was used in interrupted fashion for superficial closure.  The patient was instructed to take Keflex antibiotic for 10 days.  He was also instructed and given prescription for erythromycin ophthalmic ointment to be applied to the periorbital areas t.i.d.  The patient is to ice the area and to follow up in one week for suture removal.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and he was discharged from the Emergency Room in stable condition.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Neurologic devastation secondary to nonaccidental trauma.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Neurologic devastation secondary to nonaccidental trauma.,PROCEDURE: , Laparoscopic G-tube placement (14-French 1.2-cm MIC-Key).,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: , This patient is a 5-month-old baby boy who presented unfortunately because of nonaccidental trauma.  The patient suffered neurologic devastation.  In order to facilitate enteral feedings, the plan is to place a G-tube as the patient cannot take by mouth.  Consent was obtained by court order as the patient is a ward of the state.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:  ,The patient was taken to the operating room, placed supine, put under general endotracheal anesthesia.  The patient's abdomen was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  An incision was made through the umbilicus.  Peritoneal cavity entered bluntly.  A 5-mm trocar was introduced.  Abdomen was insufflated with a 5-mm scope.  No obvious pathology noted.  We visualized the stomach.  We chose the spot in the left upper quadrant for future G-tube site.  I made a small incision on the skin there, put another 5-mm trocar at that site.  Using a Babcock, we grasped the stomach along the greater curvature site for further G-tube.  I pulled a knuckle of stomach through the incision and secured with 4-0 Vicryl.  I then used 3-0 Prolene sutures as tacking sutures on either side of the future G-tube site taking full-thickness abdominal wall through stomach and back out the abdominal wall.  I then pulled the knuckle of stomach back up through the incision, made a gastrotomy, and then put a 4-0 pursestring around the gastrotomy site, introduced the 14, 1.2- cm MIC-Key into the stomach.  The gastrotomy site insufflated with 5 mL of saline.  We then tied down the pursestring.  On the laparoscopy, the G-tube looked to be in good position.  I insufflated the stomach through the G-tube, which I did and removed air subsequently.  I then placed 2 x 2 underneath the G-tube and tied down tacking sutures around the G-tube itself, placed the G-tube to gravity, desufflated the abdomen, closed the umbilical port site fascia with 3-0 Vicryl, closed skin with 5-0 Monocryl, and dressed with bacitracin, 2 x 2, and Steri-Strips.  The patient was extubated in the operating room and taken back to recovery room.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Extruded herniated disc, left L5-S1.,2.  Left S1 radiculopathy (acute).,3.  Morbid obesity.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Extruded herniated disc, left L5-S1.,2.  Left S1 radiculopathy (acute).,3.  Morbid obesity.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Microscopic lumbar discectomy, left L5-S1.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:  ,50 cc.,HISTORY: , This is a 40-year-old female with severe intractable left leg pain from a large extruded herniated disc at L5-S1.  She has been dealing with these symptoms for greater than three months.  She comes to my office with severe pain, left my office and reported to the Emergency Room where she was admitted for pain control one day before surgery.  I have discussed the MRI findings with the patient and the potential risks and complications.  She was scheduled to go to surgery through my office, but because of her severe symptoms, she was unable to keep that appointment and reported right to the Emergency Room.  We discussed the diagnosis and the operative procedure in detail.  I have reviewed the potential risks and complications and she had agreed to proceed with the surgery.  Due to the patient's weight which exceeds 340 lb, there was some concern about her operative table being able to support her weight and also my standard microlumbar discectomy incision is not ________ in this situation just because of the enormous size of the patient's back and abdomen and I have discussed this with her.  She is aware that she will have a much larger incision than what is standard and has agreed to accept this.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE:  ,The patient was taken to OR #5 at ABCD General Hospital.  While in the hospital gurney, Department of Anesthesia administered general anesthetic, endotracheal intubation was followed.  A Jackson table was prepared for the patient and was reinforced replacing struts under table to prevent the table from collapsing.  The table reportedly does have a limit of 500 lb, but the table has never been stressed above 275 lb.  Once the table was reinforced, the patient was carefully rolled in a prone position on the Jackson table with the bony prominences being well padded.  A marker was placed in from the back at this time and an x-ray was obtained for incision localization.  The back is now prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  A midline incision was made over the L5-S1 disc space taking through subcutaneous tissue sharply with a #10 Bard-Parker scalpel.  The lumbar dorsal fascia was then encountered and incised to the left of midline.  In the subperiosteal fashion, the musculature was elevated off the lamina at L5 and S1 after facet joint, but not disturbing the capsule.  A second marker was now placed and an intraoperative x-ray confirms our location at the L5-S1 disc space.  The microscope was brought into the field at this point and the remainder of the procedure done with microscopic visualization and illumination.  A high speed drill was used to perform a laminotomy by removing small portion of the superior edge of the S1 lamina and the inferior edge of the L5 lamina.  Ligaments and fragments were encountered and removed at this time.  The epidural space was now encountered.  The S1 nerve root was now visualized and found to be displaced dorsally as a result of a large disc herniation while the nerve was carefully protected with a Penfield.  A small stab incision was made into the disc fragment and probably a large portion of disc extrudes from the opening.  This disc fragment was removed and the nerve root was much more supple, it was carefully retracted.  The nerve root was now retracted and using a series of downgoing curettes, additional disc material was removed from around the disc space and from behind the body of S1 and L5.  At this point, all disc fragments were removed from the epidural space.  Murphy ball was passed anterior to the thecal sac in the epidural space and there was no additional compression that I can identify.  The disc space was now encountered and loose disc fragments were removed from within the disc space.  The disc space was then irrigated.  The nerve root was then reassessed and found to be quite supple.  At this point, the Murphy ball was passed into the foramen of L5 and this was patent and also into the foramen of S1 by passing ventral and dorsal to the nerve root and there were no obstructions in the passage of the device.  At this point, the wound was irrigated copiously and suctioned dry.  Gelfoam was used to cover the epidural space.  The retractors were removed at this point.  The fascia was reapproximated with #1 Vicryl suture, subcutaneous tissue with #2-0 Vicryl suture and Steri-Strips for curved incision.  The patient was transferred to the hospital gurney in supine position and extubated by Anesthesia, subsequently transferred to Postanesthesia Care Unit in stable condition.
TITLE OF OPERATION:,  Lateral and plantar condylectomy, fifth left metatarsal.,PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Prominent, lateral, and plantar condyle hypertrophy, fifth left metatarsal.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Prominent, lateral, and plantar condyle hypertrophy, fifth left metatarsal.,ANESTHESIA:  ,Monitored anesthesia care with 10 mL of 1:1 mixture of both 0.5% Marcaine and 1% lidocaine plain.,HEMOSTASIS:,  30 minutes, left ankle tourniquet set at 250 mmHg.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Less than 10 mL.,MATERIALS USED: , 3-0 Vicryl and 4-0 Vicryl.,INJECTABLES:,  Ancef 1 g IV 30 minutes preoperatively.,DESCRIPTION OF THE PROCEDURE: , The patient was brought to the operating room and placed on the operating table in a supine position.  After adequate sedation was achieved by the anesthesia team, the above-mentioned anesthetic mixture was infiltrated directly into the patient's left foot to anesthetize the future surgical sites.  The left ankle was covered with cast padding and an 18-inch ankle tourniquet was placed around the left ankle and set at 250 mmHg.  The left foot was then prepped, scrubbed, and draped in a normal sterile technique.  The left ankle tourniquet was inflated.  Attention was then directed on the dorsolateral aspect of the fifth left metatarsophalangeal joint where a 4-cm linear incision was placed over the fifth left metatarsophalangeal joint parallel and lateral to the course of the extensor digitorum longus to the fifth left toe.  The incision was deepened through the subcutaneous tissues.  All the bleeders were identified, cut, clamped, and cauterized.  The incision was deepened to the level of the capsule and the periosteum of the fifth left metatarsophalangeal joint.  All the tendinous and neurovascular structures were identified and retracted from the site to be preserved.  Using sharp and dull dissection, the soft tissue attachments through the fifth left metatarsal head were mobilized.  The lateral and plantar aspect of the fifth left metatarsal head were adequately exposed and using the sagittal saw a lateral and plantar condylectomy of the fifth left metatarsal head were then achieved.  The bony prominences were removed and passed off the operating table to be sent to pathology for identification.  The remaining sharp edges of the fifth left metatarsal head were then smoothened with the use of a dental rasp.  The area was copiously flushed with saline.  Then, 3-0 Vicryl and 4-0 Vicryl suture materials were used to approximate the periosteal, capsular, and subcutaneous tissues respectively.  The incision was reinforced with Steri-Strips.  Range of motion of the fifth left metatarsophalangeal joint was tested and was found to be excellent and uninhibited.  The patient's left ankle tourniquet at this time was deflated.  Immediate hyperemia was noted to the entire left lower extremity upon deflation of the cuff.  The patient's incision was covered with Xeroform, copious amounts of fluff and Kling, stockinette, and Ace bandage and the patient's left foot was placed in a surgical shoe.  The patient was then transferred to the recovery room under the care of the anesthesia team with her vital signs stable and her vascular status at appropriate levels.  The patient was given pain medications and instructions on how to control her postoperative course.  She was discharged from Hospital according to nursing protocol and was will follow up with Dr. X in one week's time for her first postoperative appointment.
CC:, Right shoulder pain.,HX: ,This 46 y/o RHF presented with a 4 month history of right neck and shoulder stiffness and pain. The symptoms progressively worsened over the 4 month course. 2 weeks prior to presentation she began to develop numbness in the first and second fingers of her right hand and RUE pain. The later was described as a throbbing pain. She also experienced numbness in both lower extremities and pain in the coccygeal region. The pains worsened at night and impaired sleep. She denied any visual change, bowel or bladder difficulties and symptoms involving the LUE. She occasionally experienced an electric shock like sensation shooting down her spine when flexing her neck (Lhermitte's phenomena). She denied any history of neck/back/head trauma.,She had been taking Naprosyn with little relief.,PMH: ,1) Catamenial Headaches. 2) Allergy to Macrodantin.,SHX/FHX:, Smokes 2ppd cigarettes.,EXAM: ,Vital signs were unremarkable.,CN: unremarkable.,Motor: full strength throughout. Normal tone and muscle bulk.,Sensory: No deficits on LT/PP/VIB/TEMP/PROP testing.,Coord/Gait/Station: Unremarkable.,Reflexes: 2/2 in BUE except 2+ at left biceps. 1+/1+BLE except an absent right ankle reflex.,Plantar responses were flexor bilaterally. Rectal exam: normal tone.,IMPRESSION:, C-spine lesion.,COURSE: ,MRI C-spine revealed a central C5-6 disk herniation with compression of the spinal cord at that level. EMG/NCV showed normal NCV, but 1+ sharps and fibrillations in the right biceps (C5-6), brachioradialis (C5-6), triceps (C7-8) and teres major; and 2+ sharps and fibrillations in the right pronator terres. There was increased insertional activity in all muscles tested on the right side. The findings were consistent with a C6-7 radiculopathy.,The patient subsequently underwent C5-6 laminectomy and her symptoms resolved.
TITLE OF OPERATION: , Revision laminectomy L5-S1, discectomy L5-S1, right medial facetectomy, preparation of disk space and arthrodesis with interbody graft with BMP.,INDICATIONS FOR SURGERY:  ,Please refer to medical record, but in short, the patient is a 43-year-old male known to me, status post previous lumbar surgery for herniated disk with severe recurrence of axial back pain, failed conservative therapy.  Risks and benefits of surgery were explained in detail including risk of bleeding, infection, stroke, heart attack, paralysis, need for further surgery, hardware failure, persistent symptoms, and death.  This list was inclusive, but not exclusive.  An informed consent was obtained after all patient's questions were answered.,PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  ,Severe lumbar spondylosis L5-S1, collapsed disk space, hypermobility, and herniated disk posteriorly.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Severe lumbar spondylosis L5-S1, collapsed disk space, hypermobility, and herniated disk posteriorly.,ANESTHESIA: , General anesthesia and endotracheal tube intubation.,DISPOSITION: , The patient to PACU with stable vital signs.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL:  ,The patient was taken to the operating room.  After adequate general anesthesia with endotracheal tube intubation was obtained, the patient was placed prone on the Jackson table.  Lumbar spine was shaved, prepped, and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  An incision was carried out from L4 to S1.  Hemostasis was obtained with bipolar and Bovie cauterization.  A Weitlaner was placed in the wound and a subperiosteal dissection was carried out identifying the lamina of L4, L5, and sacrum.  At this time, laminectomy was carried out of L5-S1.  Thecal sac was retracted rightward and the foramen was opened and unilateral medial facetectomy was carried out in the disk space.  At this time, the disk was entered with a #15 blade and bipolar.  The disk was entered with straight up and down-biting pituitaries, curettes, and the high speed drill and we were able to takedown calcified herniated disk.  We were able to reestablish the disk space, it was very difficult, required meticulous dissection and then drilling with a diamond bur in the disk space underneath the spinal canal, very carefully holding the spinal canal out of harm's way as well as the exiting nerve root.  Once this was done, we used rasps to remove more disk material anteriorly and under the midline to the left side and then we put in interbody graft of BMP 8 mm graft from Medtronic.  At this time, Dr. X will dictate the posterolateral fusion, pedicle screw fixation to L4 to S1 with compression and will dictate the closure of the wound.  There were no complications.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Status post multiple trauma/motor vehicle accident.,2.  Acute respiratory failure.,3.  Acute respiratory distress/ventilator asynchrony.,4.  Hypoxemia.,5.  Complete atelectasis of left lung.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Status post multiple trauma/motor vehicle accident.,2.  Acute respiratory failure.,3.  Acute respiratory distress/ventilator asynchrony.,4.  Hypoxemia.,5.  Complete atelectasis of left lung.,6.  Clots partially obstructing the endotracheal tube and completely obstructing the entire left main stem and entire left bronchial system.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: ,Emergent fiberoptic plus bronchoscopy with lavage.,LOCATION OF PROCEDURE:  ,ICU.  Room #164.,ANESTHESIA/SEDATION:,  Propofol drip, Brevital 75 mg, morphine 5 mg, and Versed 8 mg.,HISTORY,:  The patient is a 44-year-old male who was admitted to ABCD Hospital on 09/04/03 status post MVA with multiple trauma and subsequently diagnosed with multiple spine fractures as well as bilateral pulmonary contusions, requiring ventilatory assistance.  The patient was noted with acute respiratory distress on ventilator support with both ventilator asynchrony and progressive desaturation.  Chest x-ray as noted above revealed complete atelectasis of the left lung.  The patient was subsequently sedated and received one dose of paralytic as noted above followed by emergent fiberoptic flexible bronchoscopy.,PROCEDURE DETAIL,:  A bronchoscope was inserted through the oroendotracheal tube, which was partially obstructed with blood clots.  These were lavaged with several aliquots of normal saline until cleared.  The bronchoscope required removal because the tissue/clots were obstructing the bronchoscope.  The bronchoscope was reinserted on several occasions until cleared and advanced to the main carina.  The endotracheal tube was noted to be in good position.  The bronchoscope was advanced through the distal trachea.  There was a white tissue completely obstructing the left main stem at the carina.  The bronchoscope was advanced to this region and several aliquots of normal saline lavage were instilled and suctioned.  Again this partially obstructed the bronchoscope requiring several times removing the bronchoscope to clear the lumen.  The bronchoscope subsequently was advanced into the left mainstem and subsequently left upper and lower lobes.  There was diffuse mucus impactions/tissue as well as intermittent clots.  There was no evidence of any active bleeding noted.  Bronchoscope was adjusted and the left lung lavaged until no evidence of any endobronchial obstruction is noted.  Bronchoscope was then withdrawn to the main carina and advanced into the right bronchial system.  There is no plugging or obstruction of the right bronchial system.  The bronchoscope was then withdrawn to the main carina and slowly withdrawn as the position of endotracheal tube was verified, approximately 4 cm above the main carina.  The bronchoscope was then completely withdrawn as the patient was maintained on ventilator support during and postprocedure.  Throughout the procedure, pulse oximetry was greater than 95% throughout.  There is no hemodynamic instability or variability noted during the procedure.  Postprocedure chest x-ray is pending at this time.
REASON FOR ADMISSION:,  Penile injury and continuous bleeding from a penile laceration.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  The patient is an 18-year-old detainee who was brought by police officers because of a penile injury and bleeding.  He is otherwise healthy.  He tried to insert a marble in his penis four days ago.  He told me that he grabbed the skin on the top of the penis and moved it away from the penis shaft and then using a toothbrush that he made in to a knife object he pierced the skin through from both sides and then kept moving the toothbrush to dilate and make a way for the marble.  Then he inserted a heart-shaped marble in one of the puncture wounds and inserted it under the skin and kept it there.  He was not significantly bleeding and essentially the bleeding stopped from both puncture wounds that he has.  Then today four days after that procedure, he was taking a bath today and he thinks because of the weight he felt a gush in his pants and he looked and he saw the bleeding come out.  He was bleeding so much that he started dripping to the sides of his legs.  So, he was brought to the hospital.  Actually after being seen by two nurses at the facility where he was at the detention center where he was at and they actually did the dressing twice and it was twice soaked with blood.  He came here and was continuously bleeding from that area that we had to change the dressing twice and he is actually still bleeding especially from one of the laceration, the one on the right side of the penis.  The marble also still can be felt underneath the skin.  There is no urethral bleeding.  He did urinate today without difficulty, without hematuria or dysuria.  There is pain in the lacerations.  No erythema in the skin or swelling in the penis and no other injuries.  He did this procedure for sexual pleasure as he said.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Unremarkable.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  ,Tonsillectomy.,MEDICATION: , He took only ibuprofen.  No regular medication.,ALLERGIES: , None.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,He has been in detention for two months for immigration problems.  No drugs.  No alcohol.  No smoking.  He used to work in fast food chain.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Noncontributory to this illness.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , Aside from the pain in the penis and continuous bleeding, he is basically asymptomatic and review of systems is unremarkable.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  The patient is a young Hispanic male, lying in bed, appear comfortable in no apparent distress.,VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 97.8, heart rate 99, respiratory rate 20, blood pressure 142/100, and saturation is 98% on room air.,ENT:  Sclerae nonicteric.  Pupils reactive to light.  Nostrils are normal.  Oral cavity is clear.,NECK:  Supple.  Trachea midline.  No JVD.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,HEART:  Normal S1 and S2.  No murmurs or gallops.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender, and nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.,EXTREMITIES:  Pulses strong bilaterally.  No edema.,GENITAL:  Testicles appear normal.  The penis shaft has two lacerations on both sides, one of them is bleeding.  They measure about 5 to 6 mm on the right side, about 3 or 4 mm on the left side.  The one on the right side is bleeding much more than the other one.  There is a marble that can be felt and it is freely mobile underneath the skin of the dorsum of the penis.  There is no bleeding from the meatus or discharge and no other injuries were seen by inspection.,LABORATORY DATA:,  White count 11.1, hemoglobin 14.5, hematocrit 43.5, and platelets 303,000.  Coags unremarkable.  Glucose 106, creatinine 0.8, sodium 141, potassium 4, and calcium 9.7.  Urinalysis unremarkable.,IMPRESSION: , The patient with a penile laceration that is continuously bleeding from inserting a marble four days ago, which is still underneath the skin of the shaft of the penis.  No other injuries that can be seen and no other evidence of secondary bacterial infection at this time.  The patient is currently refusing removal of the marble and insisting on just repairing the laceration and he is having discussion with Dr. X.,PLAN:,1.  The patient will be admitted to the hospital and will follow Dr. X's recommendation.,2.  The patient was offered a repair of those lacerations, to stop the bleeding as well as the removal of the marble and he is currently considering that and discussing that with Dr. X.,3.  Prophylactic antibiotics to prevent infection.,4.  He has mild hypertension, which is likely due to stress and pain and also the leukocytosis probably can be explained by that.  This will be monitored.,5.  Monitor H&H to determine if he needs any transfusion at this time.  He does not need that.,6.  IV fluid for hydration and volume resuscitation at this time.,7.  Pain management.,8.  Topical care for the wound VAC after repair.,Time spent in evaluation and management of this patient including discussions about this procedure and the harm that can happen if he chooses to keep the penis including permanent damage and infection to the penis was 65 minutes.,I had clearly explained to the patient in detail about the possibility of permanent penile damage that could affect erection and future sexual functioning as well as significant infection if a foreign object was retained in the penis under the skin and he verbalized understanding of this.
REASON FOR VISIT:  ,Followup cervical spinal stenosis.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,Ms. ABC returns today for followup regarding her cervical spinal stenosis.  I have last seen her on 06/19/07.  Her symptoms of right greater than left upper extremity pain, weakness, paresthesias had been worsening after an incident on 06/04/07, when she thought she had exacerbated her conditions while lifting several objects.,I referred her to obtain a cervical spine MRI.,She returns today stating that she continues to have right upper extremity pain, paresthesias, weakness, which she believes radiates from her neck.  She had some physical therapy, which has been helping with the neck pain.  The right hand weakness continues.  She states she has a difficult time opening jars, and doors, and often drops items from her right greater than left upper extremity.  She states she have several occasions when she is sleeping at night, she has had sharp shooting radicular pain and weakness down her left upper extremity and she feels that these symptoms somewhat scare her.,She has been undergoing nonoperative management by Dr. X and feels this has been helping her neck pain, but not the upper extremity symptoms.,She denies any bowel and bladder dysfunction.  No lower back pain, no lower extremity pain, and no instability with ambulation.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Negative for fevers, chills, chest pain, and shortness of breath.,FINDINGS:  ,On examination, Ms. ABC is a very pleasant well-developed, well-nourished female in no apparent distress.  Alert and oriented x3.  Normocephalic and atraumatic.  Afebrile to touch.,She ambulates with a normal gait.,Motor strength is 4 plus out of 5 in the bilateral deltoids, biceps, triceps muscle groups, 4 out of 5 in the bilateral hand intrinsic muscle groups, grip strength 4 out of 5, 4 plus out of 5 bilateral wrist extension and wrist flexion.,Light touch sensation decreased in the right greater than left C6 distribution.  Biceps and brachioradialis reflexes are 3 plus.  Hoffman sign normal bilaterally.,Lower extremity strength is 5 out of 5 in all muscle groups.  Patellar reflex is 3 plus.  No clonus.,Cervical spine radiographs dated 06/21/07 are reviewed.,They demonstrate evidence of spondylosis including degenerative disk disease and anterior and posterior osteophyte formation at C4-5, C5-6, C6-7, and C3-4 demonstrates only minimal if any degenerative disk disease.  There is no significant instability seen on flexion-extension views.,Updated cervical spine MRI dated 06/21/07 is reviewed.,It demonstrates evidence of moderate stenosis at C4-5, C5-6.  These stenosis is in the bilateral neural foramina and there is also significant disk herniation noted at the C6-7 level.  Minimal degenerative disk disease is seen at the C6-7.  This stenosis is greater than C5-6 and the next level is more significantly involved at C4-5.,Effacement of the ventral and dorsal CSF space is seen at C4-5, C5-6.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: , Ms. ABC's history, physical examination, and radiographic findings are compatible with C4-5, C5-6 cervical spinal stenosis with associated right greater than left upper extremity radiculopathy including weakness.,I spent a significant amount of time today with the patient discussing the diagnosis, prognosis, natural history, nonoperative, and operative treatment options.,I laid out the options as continued nonoperative management with physical therapy, the same with the addition of cervical epidural steroid injections and surgical interventions.,The patient states she would like to avoid injections and is somewhat afraid of having these done.  I explained to her that they may help to improve her symptoms, although they may not help with the weakness.,She feels that she is failing maximum nonoperative management and would like to consider surgical intervention.,I described the procedure consisting of C4-5, C5-6 anterior cervical decompression and fusion to the patient in detail on a spine model.,I explained the rationale for doing so including the decompression of the spinal cord and improvement of her upper extremity weakness and pain.  She understands.,I discussed the risks, benefits, and alternative of the procedure including material risks of bleeding, infection, neurovascular injury, dural tear, singular or multiple muscle weakness, paralysis, hoarseness of voice, difficulty swallowing, pseudoarthrosis, adjacent segment disease, and the risk of this given the patient's relatively young age.  Of note, the patient does have a hoarse voice right now, given the fact that she feels she has allergies.,I also discussed the option of disk arthroplasty.  She understands.,She would like to proceed with the surgery, relatively soon.  She has her birthday coming up on 07/20/07 and would like to hold off, until after then.  Our tentative date for the surgery is 08/01/07.  She will go ahead and continue the preoperative testing process.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:,  Well-child check sports physical.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  This is a 14-1/2-year-old white male known to have asthma and allergic rhinitis.  He is here with his mother for a well-child check.  Mother states he has been doing well with regard to his asthma and allergies.  He is currently on immunotherapy and also takes Advair 500/50 mg, Flonase, Claritin and albuterol inhaler as needed.  His last exacerbation was 04/04.  He has been very competitive in his sports this spring and summer and has had no issues since that time.  He eats well from all food groups.  He has very good calcium intake.  He will be attending Maize High School in the ninth grade.  He has same-sex and opposite-sex friends.  He has had a girlfriend in the past.  He denies any sexual activity.  No use of alcohol, cigarettes or other drugs.  His bowel movements are without problems.  His immunizations are up to date.  His last tetanus booster was in 07/03.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  As above.,ALLERGIES: , He has no known medication allergies.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,Constitutional:  He has had no fever.,HEENT:  No vision problems.  No eye redness, itching or drainage.  No earache.  No sore throat or congestion.,Cardiovascular:  No chest pain.,Respiratory:  No cough, shortness of breath or wheezing.,GI:  No stomachache, vomiting or diarrhea.,GU:  No dysuria, urgency or frequency.,Hematological:  No excessive bruising or bleeding.  He did have a minor concussion in 06/04 while playing baseball.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  He is alert and in no distress.,Vital signs:  He is afebrile.  His weight is at the 75th percentile.  His height is about the 80th percentile.,HEENT:  Normocephalic.  Atraumatic.  Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light.  TMs are clear bilaterally.  Nares patent.  Nasal mucosa is mildly edematous and pink.  No secretions.  Oropharynx is clear.,Neck:  Supple.,Lungs:  Good air exchange bilaterally.,Heart:  Regular.  No murmur.,Abdomen:  Soft.  Positive bowel sounds.  No masses.  No hepatosplenomegaly.,GU:  Male.  Testes descended bilaterally.  Tanner IV.  No hernia appreciated.,Extremities:  Symmetrical.  Femoral pulses 2+ bilaterally.  Full range of motion of all extremities.,Back:  No scoliosis.,Neurological:  Grossly intact.,Skin:  Normal turgor.  Minor sunburn on upper back.,Neurological:  Grossly intact.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Well child.,2.  Asthma with good control.,3.  Allergic rhinitis, stable.,PLAN:,  Hearing and vision assessment today are both within normal limits.  Will check an H&H today.  Continue all medications as directed.  Prescription written for albuterol inhaler, #2, one for home and one for school to be used for rescue.  Anticipatory guidance for age.  He is to return to the office in one year or sooner if needed.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: , Chronic otitis media and tonsillar adenoid hypertrophy.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  Chronic otitis media and tonsillar adenoid hypertrophy.,PROCEDURES:,  Bilateral myringotomy and tube placement, tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy.,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: , The patient is a 3-1/2-year-old child with history of recurrent otitis media as well as snoring and chronic mouth breathing.  Risks and benefits of surgery including risk of bleeding, general anesthesia, tympanic membrane perforation as well as persistent recurrent otitis media were discussed with the patient and parents and informed consent was signed by the parents.,FINDINGS:  ,The patient was brought to the operating room, placed in supine position, given general endotracheal anesthesia.  The left ear was then draped in a clean fashion.  Under microscopic visualization, the ear canal was cleaned of the wax.  Myringotomy incision was made in the anterior inferior quadrant.  There was no fluid in the middle ear space.  A Micron Bobbin tube was easily placed.  Floxin drops were placed in the ear.  The same was performed on the right side with similar findings.  The patient was then turned to be placed in Rose position.  The patient draped in clean fashion.  A small McIvor mouth gag was used to hold open the oral cavity.  The soft palate was palpated.  There was no submucous cleft felt.  Using a 1:1 mixture of 1% Xylocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine and 0.25% Marcaine, both tonsillar pillars and the fossae injected with approximately 7 mL total.  Using a curved Allis the right tonsil was grasped and pulled medially.  Tonsil was dissected off the tonsillar fossa using a Coblator.  The left tonsil was removed in the similar fashion.  Hemostasis then achieved in tonsillar fossa using the Coblator on coagulation setting.  The soft palate was then retracted using red rubber catheter.  Under mirror visualization, the patient was found to have enlarged adenoids.  The adenoids were removed using the Coblator.  Hemostasis was also achieved using the Coblator on coagulation setting.  The rubber catheter was then removed.  Reexamining the oropharynx, small bleeding points were cauterized with the Coblator.  Stomach contents were then aspirated with saline sump.  The patient was woken up from anesthesia, extubated and brought to recovery room in stable condition.  There were no intraoperative complications.  Needle and sponge correct.  Estimated blood loss minimal.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.,2.  Hiatal hernia.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.,2.  Hiatal hernia.,3.  Enterogastritis.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:  ,Esophagogastroduodenoscopy, photography, and biopsy.,GROSS FINDINGS: , The patient has a history of epigastric abdominal pain, persistent in nature.  She has a history of severe gastroesophageal reflux disease, takes Pepcid frequently.  She has had a history of hiatal hernia.  She is being evaluated at this time for disease process.  She does not have much response from Protonix.,Upon endoscopy, the gastroesophageal junction is approximately 40 cm.  There appeared to be some inflammation at the gastroesophageal junction and a small 1 cm to 2 cm hiatal hernia.  There is no advancement of the gastric mucosa up into the lower one-third of the esophagus.  However there appeared to be inflammation as stated previously in the gastroesophageal junction.  There was some mild inflammation at the antrum of the stomach.  The fundus of the stomach was within normal limits.  The cardia showed some laxity to the lower esophageal sphincter.  The pylorus is concentric.  The duodenal bulb and sweep are within normal limits.  No ulcers or erosions.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: , The patient is taken to the Endoscopy Suite, prepped and draped in the left lateral decubitus position.  The patient was given IV sedation using Demerol and Versed.  Olympus videoscope was inserted into the hypopharynx and upon deglutition passed into the esophagus.  Using air insufflation, panendoscope was advanced down the esophagus into the stomach along the greater curvature of the stomach through the pylorus into the duodenal bulb and sweep and the above gross findings were noted.  Panendoscope was slowly withdrawn carefully examining the lumen of the bowel.  Photographs were taken with the pathology present.  Biopsy was obtained of the antrum of the stomach and also CLO test.  The biopsy is also obtained of the gastroesophageal junction at 12, 3, 6 and 9 o' clock positions to rule out occult Barrett's esophagitis.  Air was aspirated from the stomach and the panendoscope was removed.  The patient sent to recovery room in stable condition.
SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is in with several medical problems.  He complains his mouth being sore since last week and also some "trouble with my eyes."  He states that they feel "funny" but he is seeing okay.  He denies any more diarrhea or abdominal pain.  Bowels are working okay.  He denies nausea or diarrhea.  Eating is okay.  He is emptying his bladder okay.  He denies dysuria.  His back is hurting worse.  He complains of right shoulder pain and neck pain over the last week but denies any injury.  He reports that his cough is about the same.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Metronidazole 250 mg q.i.d., Lortab 5/500 b.i.d., Allegra 180 mg daily, Levothroid 100 mcg daily, Lasix 20 mg daily, Flomax 0.4 mg at h.s., aspirin 81 mg daily, Celexa 40 mg daily, verapamil SR 180 mg one and a half tablet daily, Zetia 10 mg daily, Feosol b.i.d.,ALLERGIES: , Lamisil, Equagesic, Bactrim, Dilatrate, cyclobenzaprine.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  He is a well-developed, well-nourished, elderly male in no acute distress.,Vital Signs:  His age is 66.  Temperature:  97.7.  Blood pressure:  134/80.  Pulse:  88.  Weight:  201 pounds.,HEENT:  Head was normocephalic.  Examination of the throat reveals it to be clear.  He does have a few slight red patches on his upper inner lip consistent with yeast dermatitis.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy or thyromegaly.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Extremities:  He has full range of motion of his shoulders but some tenderness to the trapezius over the right shoulder.  Back has limited range of motion.  He is nontender to his back.  Deep tendon reflexes are 2+ bilaterally in lower extremities.  Straight leg raising is positive for back pain on the right side at 90 degrees.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender without hepatosplenomegaly or mass.  He has normal bowel sounds.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Clostridium difficile enteritis, improved.,2.  Right shoulder pain.,3.  Chronic low back pain.,4.  Yeast thrush.,5.  Coronary artery disease.,6.  Urinary retention, which is doing better.,PLAN:,  I put him on Diflucan 200 mg daily for seven days.  We will have him stop his metronidazole little earlier at his request.  He can drop it down to t.i.d. until Friday of this week and then finish Fridayâ€™s dose and then stop the metronidazole and that will be more than a 10-day course.  I ordered physical therapy to evaluate and treat his right shoulder and neck as indicated x 6 visits and he may see Dr. XYZ p.r.n. for his eye discomfort and his left eye pterygium which is noted on exam (minimal redness is noted to the conjunctiva on the left side but no mattering was seen.)  Recheck with me in two to three weeks.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Right hyoid mass, rule out carcinomatosis.,2.  Weight loss.,3.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Right hyoid mass, rule out carcinomatosis.,2.  Weight loss.,3.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.,4.  Changes consistent with acute and chronic bronchitis.,5.  Severe mucosal irregularity with endobronchial narrowing of the right middle and lower lobes.,6.  Left vocal cord irregularity.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:  ,Fiberoptic flexible bronchoscopy with lavage, brushings, and endobronchial mucosal biopsies of the right bronchus intermedius/right lower lobe.,ANESTHESIA: , Demerol 50 mg with Versed 3 mg as well as topical cocaine and lidocaine solution.,LOCATION OF PROCEDURE: , Endoscopy suite #4.,After informed consent was obtained and following the review of the procedure including procedure as well as possible risks and complications were explained and consent was previously obtained, the patient was sedated with the above stated medication and the patient was continuously monitored on pulse oximetry, noninvasive blood pressure, and EKG monitoring.  Prior to starting the procedure, the patient was noted to have a baseline oxygen saturation of 86% on room air.  Subsequently, she was given a bronchodilator treatment with Atrovent and albuterol and subsequent saturation increased to approximately 90% to 91% on room air.,The patient was placed on a supplemental oxygen as the patient was sedated with above-stated medication.  As this occurred, the bronchoscope was inserted into the right naris with good visualization of the nasopharynx and oropharynx.  The cords were noted to oppose bilaterally on phonation.  There was some slight mucosal irregularity noted on the vocal cord on the left side.  Additional topical lidocaine was instilled on the vocal cords, at which point the bronchoscope was introduced into the trachea, which was midline in nature.  The bronchoscope was then advanced to the distal trachea and additional lidocaine was instilled.  At this time, the bronchoscope was further advanced through the main stem and additional lidocaine was instilled.  Bronchoscope was then further advanced into the right upper lobe, which revealed no evidence of any endobronchial lesion.  The mucosa was diffusely friable throughout.  Bronchoscope was then slowly withdrawn into the right main stem and additional lidocaine was instilled.  At this point, the bronchoscope was then advanced to the right bronchus intermedius.  At this time, it was noted that there was severe mucosal irregularities of nodular in appearance significantly narrowing the right lower lobe and right middle lobe opening.  The mucosal area throughout this region was severely friable.  Additional lidocaine was instilled as well as topical epinephrine.  At this time, bronchoscope was maintained in this region and endobronchial biopsies were performed.  At the initial attempt of inserting biopsy forceps, some resistance was noted within the proximal channel at this time making advancement of the biopsy forceps out of the proximal channel impossible.  So the biopsy forceps was withdrawn and the bronchoscope was completely withdrawn and new bronchoscope was then utilized.  At this time, bronchoscope was then reinserted into the right naris and subsequently advanced to the vocal cords into the right bronchus intermedius without difficulty.  At this time, the biopsy forceps were easily passed and visualized in the right bronchus intermedius.  At this time, multiple mucosal biopsies were performed with some mild oozing noted.  Several aliquots of normal saline lavage followed.  After completion of multiple biopsies there was good hemostasis.  Cytology flushing was also performed in this region and subsequently several aliquots of additional normal saline lavage was followed.  Bronchoscope was unable to be passed distally to the base of the segment of the right lower lobe or distal to the further visualized endobronchial anatomy of the right middle lobe subsegments.  The bronchoscope was then withdrawn to the distal trachea.,At this time, bronchoscope was then advanced to the left main stem.  Additional lidocaine was instilled.  The bronchoscope was advanced to the left upper and lower lobe subsegments.  There was no endobronchial lesion visualized.  There is mild diffuse erythema and fibromucosa was noted throughout.  No endobronchial lesion was visualized in the left bronchial system.  The bronchoscope was then subsequently further withdrawn to the distal trachea and readvanced into the right bronchial system.  At this time, bronchoscope was readvanced into the right bronchus intermedius and additional aliquots of normal saline lavage until cleared.  There is no gross bleeding evidenced at this time or diffuse mucosal erythema and edema present throughout.  The bronchoscope was subsequently withdrawn and the patient was sent to recovery room.  During the bronchoscopy, the patient noted ________ have desaturation and required increasing FiO2 with subsequent increased saturation to 93% to 94%.  The patient remained at this level of saturation or greater throughout the remaining of the procedure.,The patient postprocedure relates having some intermittent hemoptysis prior to the procedure as well as moderate exertional dyspnea.  This was confirmed by her daughter and mother who were also present at the bedside postprocedure.  The patient did receive a nebulizer bronchodilator treatment immediately prebronchoscopy and postprocedure as well.  The patient also admitted to continued smoking in spite of all of the above.  The patient was extensively counseled regarding the continued smoking especially with her present symptoms.  She was advised regarding smoking cessation.  The patient was also placed on a prescription of prednisone 2 mg tablets starting at 40 mg a day decreasing every three days to continue to wean off.  The patient was also administered Solu-Medrol 60 mg IV x1 in recovery room.  There was no significant bronchospastic component noted, although because of the severity of the mucosal edema, erythema, and her complaints, short course of steroids will be instituted.  The patient was also advised to refrain from using any aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication because of her hemoptysis.  At this time, the patient was also advised that if hemoptysis were to continue or worsen or develop progressive dyspnea, to either contact myself, , or return to ABCD Emergency Room for evaluation of possible admission.  However, the above was reviewed with the patient in great detail as well as with her daughter and mother who were at the bedsite at this time as well.
EXAMINATION: , Cardiac catheterization.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Left heart catheterization, LV cineangiography, selective coronary angiography, and right heart catheterization with cardiac output by thermodilution technique with dual transducer.,INDICATION: , Syncope with severe aortic stenosis.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: , After informed consent was obtained from the patient, the patient was brought to the cardiac catheterization laboratory in a post observed state.  The right groin was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  After adequate conscious sedation and local anesthesia was obtained, a 6-French sheath was placed in the right common femoral artery and a 8-French sheath was placed in the right common femoral vein.  Following this, a 7.5-French Swan-Ganz catheter was advanced into the right atrium where the right atrial pressure was 10/7 mmHg.  The catheter was then manipulated into the right ventricle where the right ventricular pressure was 37/10/4 mmHg.  The catheter was then manipulated into the wedge position where the wedge pressure was noted to be 22 mmHg.  The pulmonary arterial pressures were noted to be 31/14/21 mmHg.  Following this, the catheter was removed, the sheath was flushed and a 6-French JL4 diagnostic catheter was the advanced over the guidewire and the left main coronary artery was cannulated and selective angiogram was obtained in orthogonal views.  Following this, the catheter was exchanged over the guidewire for 6-French JR4 diagnostic catheter.  We were unable to cannulate the right coronary artery.  Therefore, we exchanged for a Williams posterior catheter and we were able to cannulate the right coronary artery and angiographs were performed in orthogonal views.  Following this, this catheter was exchanged over a guidewire for a 6-French Langston pigtail catheter and the left ventricle was entered and left ventriculography was performed.  Following this, the catheters were removed.  Sheath angiograms revealed the sheath to be in the right common femoral artery and the right common femoral arteriotomy was sealed using a 6-French Angio-Seal device.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no complications.,DESCRIPTION OF FINDINGS: , The left main coronary artery is a large vessel, which bifurcates into the left anterior descending artery and left circumflex artery and has moderate diffuse luminal irregularities with no critical lesions.  The left circumflex artery is a short vessel, which gives off one major obtuse marginal artery and has moderate diffuse luminal irregularities with no critical lesions.  The left anterior descending artery has moderate diffuse luminal irregularities and gives off two major diagonal branches.  There is a 70% ostial lesion in the first diagonal branch and the second diagonal branch has mild-to-moderate luminal irregularities.  The right coronary artery is a very large dominant vessel with a 60% to 70% lesion in its descending mid-portion.  The remainder of the vessel has moderate diffuse luminal irregularities with no critical lesions.  The left ventricle appears to be normal sized.  The aortic valve is heavily calcified.  The estimated ejection fraction is approximately 60%.  There was 4+ mitral regurgitation noted.  The mean gradient across the aortic valve was noted to be 33 mmHg yielding an aortic valve area of 0.89 cm2.,CONCLUSION:,1.  Moderate-to-severe coronary artery disease with a high-grade lesion seen at the ostium of the first diagonal artery as well as a 60% to 70% lesion seen at the mid portion of the right coronary artery.,2.  Moderate-to-severe aortic stenosis with an aortic valve area of 0.89 cm2.,3.  4+ mitral regurgitation.,PLAN: , The patient will most likely need a transesophageal echocardiogram to better evaluate the valvular architecture and the patient will be referred to Dr Kenneth Fang for possible aortic valve replacement as well as mitral valve repair/replacement and possible surgical revascularization.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  The patient is a 26-year-old gravida 2, para 1-0-0-1, at 28-1/7 weeks who presents to the emergency room with left lower quadrant pain, reports no bowel movement in two weeks as well as nausea and vomiting for the last 24 hours or so.  She states that she has not voided in the last 24 hours as well due to pain.  She denies any leaking of fluid, vaginal bleeding, or uterine contractions.  She reports good fetal movement.  She denies any fevers, chills, or burning with urination.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , Positive for back pain in her lower back only.  Her mother reports that she has been eating food without difficulty and that the current nausea and vomiting is much less than when she is not pregnant.  She continues to yell out for requesting pain medication and about how much "it hurts.",PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,1.  Irritable bowel syndrome.,2.  Urinary tract infections times three.  The patient is unsure if pyelo is present or not.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:,  Denies.,ALLERGIES: , No known drug allergies.,MEDICATIONS: , Phenergan and Zofran twice a day.  Macrobid questionable.,GYN: , History of an abnormal Pap, group B within normal limits.  Denies any sexually transmitted diseases.,OB HISTORY: , G1 is a term spontaneous vaginal delivery without complications, now a 6-year-old.  G2 is current.  Gets her care at Lyndhurst.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , Denies tobacco and alcohol use.  She endorses marijuana use and a history of cocaine use five years ago.  Upon review of the Baptist lab systems, the patient has had multiple positive urine drug screens and as recently as February 2008 had a urine drug screen that was positive for benzodiazepines, barbiturates, opiates, and marijuana and as recently as 2005 with cocaine present as well.,PHYSICAL EXAM:,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure 139/82, pulse 89, respirations 20, 98% on room air, 96 degrees Fahrenheit.  Fetal heart tones are 130s with moderate long-term variability.  No paper is available for the fetal heart monitor due to the misorder and audibly sounds reassuring.,GENERAL:  Appears sedated, trashing intermittently, and then falling asleep in mid sentence.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular rate and rhythm.,PULMONARY:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,BACK:  Tender to palpation in her lower back bilaterally, but no CVA tenderness.,ABDOMEN:  Tender to palpation in left lower quadrant.  No guarding or rebound.  Normal bowel sounds.,EXTREMITIES:  Scar track marks from bilateral arms.,PELVIC:  External vaginal exam is closed, long, high, and posterior.  Stool was felt in the rectum.,LABS: , White count is 11.1, hemoglobin is 13.5, platelets are 279.  CMP is within normal limits with an AST of 17, ALT of 11, and creatinine of 0.6.  Urinalysis which is supposedly a cath specimen shows a specific gravity of 1.024, greater than 88 ketones, many bacteria, but no white blood cells or nitrites.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:  ,The patient is a 26-year-old gravida 2, para 1-0-0-1 at 28-1 weeks with left lower quadrant pain and likely constipation.  I spoke with Dr. X who is the physician on-call tonight, and he requests that she be transferred for continued fetal monitoring and further evaluation of this abdominal pain to Labor and Delivery.  Plans are made for transfer at this time.  This was discussed with Dr. Y who is in agreement with the plan.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS (ES):, Recurrent herniation L4-5 disk with left radiculopathy.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS (ES):, Recurrent herniation L4-5 disk with left radiculopathy.,PROCEDURE:, Redo L4-5 diskectomy left.,COMPLICATIONS:, None.,ANTIBIOTIC (S),: Vancomycin given preoperatively.,ANESTHESIA:, General endotracheal.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:, 10 mL.,BLOOD REPLACED:, None.,CRYSTALLOID GIVEN:, 800 mL.,DRAIN (S):, None.,DESCRIPTION OF THE OPERATION:, The patient was brought to the operating room in supine position. General endotracheal anesthesia was administered. He was turned into the prone position on the operating table and positioned in the modified knee-chest position with Andrews frame being used. Care was taken to protect pressure points. The back was shaved, scrubbed with Betadine scrub, rinsed with alcohol, and prepped with DuraPrep, and draped in the usual sterile fashion with Ioban drape being used. A midline skin incision was made, excising scar from previous surgery. Dissection was carried down through the subcutaneous tissue with electrocautery technique. The lumbosacral fascia was split to the left of the spinous process, and subperiosteal dissection of the spinous process and lamina, area of previous laminotomy was identified. Cross-table lateral was also made to confirm position. The scar was then loosened from the inferior portion of 4, superior of L5 lamina, and a portion of the lamina was removed. I did identify normal dura. The scar was then lysed from the medial wall. Dura and nerve root were identified and protected with nerve root retractor. The bulging disk fragment was still contained under the longitudinal ligament. A rent was made with the Penfield and a moderately large fragment was removed. The disk space was then entered with a cruciate cut in the annulus, with additional nuclear material being received. When no other fragments could be removed from the disk space, no other fragments were felt in the central canal under the longitudinal ligament, and a Murphy ball could be passed through the foramen without evidence of compression, the decompression was complete. Check was made for CSF leakage, and no evidence of significant epidural bleeding was present. The wound was irrigated with antibiotic solution. Twenty milligrams of Depo-Medrol was placed over the dura and nerve root. A free fat graft from the subcutaneous tissue was then placed over the dura. Closure was obtained with the lumbosacral fascia being reapproximated with #1, running, Vicryl suture. Subcutaneous closure was obtained in layers with 2-0, running, Vicryl suture. Skin closure was obtained with 3-0 Vicryl subcuticular suture. Proxi-Strips and sterile dressing was applied. The skin had been infiltrated with 8 mL of 0.5% Marcaine with epinephrine.,After a sterile dressing was applied, the patient was turned into the supine position on the waiting recovery room stretcher, brought from under the effects of anesthesia, and taken to the recovery room.
ENDOVASCULAR BRACHYTHERAPY (EBT),The patient is to undergo a course of angioplasty for in-stent restenosis.  The radiotherapy will be planned using simulation films when the Novoste system catheter markers are placed on either side of the coronary artery injury site.  After this, a calculation will take place to determine the length of time at which the strontium sources will be left in place to deliver an adequate dose given the reference vessel diameter.  The rationale for this treatment is based on radiobiological principles that make this type of therapy more effective than blade atherectomy or laser atherectomy.  The does per fraction is individualized for each patient according to radiobiological principles and reference vessel diameter.  Given that this is a very high dose rate source and the chances of severe acute toxicity such as cardiac ischemia and machine malfunction are present, it is imperative that the patient be followed closely by myself and monitored for ST segment elevation and correct machine function.
REASON FOR VISIT:,  The patient is an 11-month-old with a diagnosis of stage 2 neuroblastoma here for ongoing management of his disease and the visit is supervised by Dr. X.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is an 11-month-old with neuroblastoma, which initially presented on the left when he was 6 weeks old and was completely resected.  It was felt to be stage 2.  It was not N-Myc amplified and had favorable Shimada histology.  In followup, he was found to have a second primary in his right adrenal gland, which was biopsied and also consistent with neuroblastoma with favorable Shimada histology.  He is now being treated with chemotherapy per protocol P9641 and not on study.  He last received chemotherapy on 05/21/07, with carboplatin, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin.  He received G-CSF daily after his chemotherapy due to neutropenia that delayed his second cycle.  In the interval since he was last seen, his mother reports that he had a couple of days of nasal congestion, but it is now improving.  He is not acted ill or had any fevers.  He has had somewhat diminished appetite, but it seems to be improving now.  He is peeing and pooping normally and has not had any diarrhea.  He did not have any appreciated nausea or vomiting.  He has been restarted on fluconazole due to having redeveloped thrush recently.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , The following systems reviewed and negative per pathology except as noted above.  Eyes, ears, throat, cardiovascular, GI, genitourinary, musculoskeletal skin, and neurologic., PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Reviewed as above and otherwise unchanged.,FAMILY HISTORY:,  Reviewed and unchanged.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , The patient's parents continued to undergo a separation and divorce.  The patient spends time with his father and his family during the first part of the week and with his mother during the second part of the week.,MEDICATIONS:  ,1.  Bactrim 32 mg by mouth twice a day on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.,2.  G-CSF 50 mcg subcutaneously given daily in his thighs alternating with each dose.,3.  Fluconazole 37.5 mg daily.,4.  Zofran 1.5 mg every 6 hours as needed for nausea.,ALLERGIES: , No known drug allergies.,FINDINGS: , A detailed physical exam revealed a very active and intractable, well-nourished 11-month-old male with weight 10.5 kilos and height 76.8 cm.  Vital Signs:  Temperature is 35.3 degrees Celsius, pulse is 121 beats per minute, respiratory rate 32 breaths per minute, blood pressure 135/74 mmHg.  Eyes:  Conjunctivae are clear, nonicteric.  Pupils are equally round and reactive to light.  Extraocular muscle movements appear intact with no strabismus.  Ears:  TMs are clear bilaterally.  Oral Mucosa:  No thrush is appreciated.  No mucosal ulcerations or erythema.  Chest:  Port-a-Cath is nonerythematous and nontender to VP access port.  Respiratory:  Good aeration, clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate, normal S1 and S2, no murmurs appreciated.  Abdomen is soft, nontender, and no organomegaly, unable to appreciate a right-sided abdominal mass or any other masses.  Skin:  No rashes.  Neurologic:  The patient walks without assistance, frequently falls on his bottom.,LABORATORY STUDIES: , CBC and comprehensive metabolic panel were obtained and they are significant for AST 51, white blood cell count 11,440, hemoglobin 10.9, and platelets 202,000 with ANC 2974.  Medical tests none.  Radiologic studies are none.,ASSESSMENT: , This patient's disease is life threatening, currently causing moderately severe side effects.,PROBLEMS DIAGNOSES:  ,1.  Neuroblastoma of the right adrenal gland with favorable Shimada histology.,2.  History of stage 2 left adrenal neuroblastoma, status post gross total resection.,3.  Immunosuppression.,4.  Mucosal candidiasis.,5.  Resolving neutropenia.,PROCEDURES AND IMMUNIZATIONS:,  None.,PLANS:  ,1.  Neuroblastoma.  The patient will return to the Pediatric Oncology Clinic on 06/13/07 to 06/15/07 for his third cycle of chemotherapy.  I will plan for restaging with CT of the abdomen prior to the cycle.,2.  Immunosuppression.  The patient will continue on his Bactrim twice a day on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.  Additionally, we will tentatively plan to have him continue fluconazole since this is his second episode of thrush.,3.  Mucosal candidiasis.  We will continue fluconazole for thrush.  I am pleased that the clinical evidence of disease appears to have resolved.  For resolving neutropenia, I advised Gregory's mother about it is okay to discontinue the G-CSF at this time.  We will plan for him to resume G-CSF after his next chemotherapy and prescription has been sent to the patient's pharmacy.,PEDIATRIC ONCOLOGY ATTENDING: , I have reviewed the history of the patient.  This is an 11-month-old with neuroblastoma who received chemotherapy with carboplatin, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin on 05/21/07 for cycle 2 of POG-9641 due to his prior history of neutropenia, he has been on G-CSF.  His ANC is nicely recovered.  He will have a restaging CT prior to his next cycle of chemotherapy and then return for cycle 3 chemotherapy on 06/13/07 to 06/15/07.  He continues on fluconazole for recent history of thrush.  Plans are otherwise documented above.
PROCEDURE:,  The test was performed in an observed hospital laboratory.  The patient was monitored for EEG, EOG, jaw and leg EMG, thoracoabdominal impedance, oral/nasal thermistors, EKG, and oximetry.  The test was performed due to suspicion of sleep apnea and poor sleep quality with frequent awakenings.,The patient's height 6 feet, 1 inch and his weight 260 pounds.,DETAILS: , Total sleep period 377 minutes, total sleep time 241 minutes, sleep onset 33 minutes, and sleep efficiency 64%.  Stage I 9%, stage II 59%, stage III 23%, and REM stage 9%.  There were 306 apneas and hypopnea with apnea/hypopnea index 76.  Out of them 109 apneas and 197 hypopneas.  There were 40 arousals with index 9.9.  Mean oxygen saturation 91% with lowest oxygen saturation 70%.  A 19% of sleep time was spent with oxygen saturation less than 90% and 1% with less than 80%.  Oxygen saturation during awake 95%.  The patient slept in supine left side and right side, no preferred body position identified for apneas.  Average pulse 85 BPMs with lowest 61 and highest 116 BPMs.  No significant snoring throughout the study.  No significant leg jerk movement.,SUMMARY: , Severe obstructive sleep apnea with apnea/hypopnea index 76 and respiratory disturbance index 9.9.  Suggest weight loss, thyroid function evaluation, and CPAP titration study.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Congenital bilateral esotropia, 42 prism diopters.,PROCEDURE:,  Bilateral rectus recession with the microscopic control, 8 mm, both eyes.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Congenital bilateral esotropia, 42 prism diopters.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was taken to the Surgery Room and placed in the supine position.  The general anesthesia was achieved with intubation with no problems.  Both eyes were prepped and draped in usual manner.  The attention was turned the right eye and a hole was made in the drape and a self-retaining eye speculum was placed ensuring eyelash in the eye drape.  The microscope was focused on the palpebral limbus and the eyeball was rotated medially and laterally with no problem.  The eyeball rotated medially and upwards by holding the limbus at 7 o'clock position.  Inferior fornix conjunctival incision was made and Tenons capsule buttonholed.  The lateral rectus muscle was engaged over the muscle hook and the Tenons capsule was retracted with the tip of the muscle hook.  The Tenons capsule was buttonholed.  The tip of the muscle hook and Tenons capsule was cleaned from the insertion of the muscle.  __________ extension of the muscle was excised.  The 7-0 Vicryl sutures were placed at the insertion of the muscle and double locked at the upper and lower borders.  The muscle was disinserted from original insertion.  The suture was passed 8 mm posterior to the insertion of the muscle in double sewed fashion.  The suture was pulled, tied, and cut.  The muscle was in good position.  The conjunctiva was closed with 7-0 Vicryl suture in running fashion.  The suture was pulled, tied, and cut.  The eye speculum was taken out.,Similar procedure performed on the left rectus muscle and it was recessed by 8 mm from its original insertion.  The suture was pulled, tied and cut.  The eye speculum was taken out after the conjunctiva was sewed up and the suture was cut.  TobraDex eye drops were instilled in both eyes and the patient extubated and was in good condition.  To be seen in the office in 1 week.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Deformity, right breast reconstruction.,2.  Excess soft tissue, anterior abdomen and flank.,3.  Lipodystrophy of the abdomen.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Deformity, right breast reconstruction.,2.  Excess soft tissue, anterior abdomen and flank.,3.  Lipodystrophy of the abdomen.,PROCEDURES:,1.  Revision, right breast reconstruction.,2.  Excision, soft tissue fullness of the lateral abdomen and flank.,3.  Liposuction of the supraumbilical abdomen.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,INDICATION FOR OPERATION:,  The patient is a 31-year-old white female who previously has undergone latissimus dorsi flap and implant, breast reconstruction.  She now had lateralization of the implant with loss of medial fullness for which she desired correction.  It was felt that mobilization of the implant medially would provide the patient significant improvement and this was discussed with the patient at length.  The patient also had a small dog ear in the flank area on the right from the latissimus flap harvest, which was to be corrected.  She had also had liposuction of the periumbilical and infraumbilical abdomen with desire to have great improvement superiorly, was felt to be a candidate for such.  The above-noted procedure was discussed with the patient in detail.  The risks, benefits and potential complications were discussed.  She was marked in the upright position and then taken to the operating room for the above-noted procedure.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: , The patient was taken to the operating room and placed in the supine position.  Following adequate induction of general LMA anesthesia, the chest and abdomen was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  The supraumbilical abdomen was then injected with a solution of 5% lidocaine with epinephrine, as was the dog ear.  At this time, the superior central scar was then excised, dissection continued through the subcutaneous tissue, the underlying latissimus muscle until the capsule of the implant was reached.  This was then opened.  The implant was removed and placed on the back table in antibiotic solution.  Using Bovie cautery, the medial capsule was released and undermining was then performed with release of the muscle to the level of the proposed medial projection of the breast.  The inframammary fold medially was secured with 2-0 PDS suture to create greater takeoff point at this level which in the upright position and using a sizer produced a good form.  The lateral pocket was diminished by series of 2-0 PDS suture to provide medialization of the implant.  The implant was then placed back into the submuscular pocket with much improved positioning and medial fullness.  With this completed, the implant was again removed, antibiotic irrigation was performed.  A drain was placed and brought out through a separate inferior stab wound incision and hemostasis was confirmed.  The implant was then replaced and the wound was then closed in layers using 2-0 PDS running suture on the muscle and 3-0 Monocryl Dermabond subcuticular sutures.  The 2.5 cm dog ear was then excised into and including the subcutaneous tissue, even contouring was achieved and this was closed with two layers using 3-0 Monocryl suture.  Using a #3 cannula, a superior umbilical incision, liposuction was carried out into the supraumbilical abdomen, removing approximately 40 to 50 mL of fat with improved supraumbilical contours.  This was closed with 6-0 Prolene suture.  The patient was placed in a compressive garment after treating the incision with Dermabond, Steri-Strips and antibiotic ointment around the drain site and umbilicus.  A Kerlix dressing and a surgical bra was placed to the chest area.  A compressive garment was placed.  The patient was then aroused from anesthesia, extubated, and taken to the recovery room in stable condition.  Sponge, needle, lap, instrument counts were all correct.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  There were no complications.  The estimated blood loss was approximately 25 mL.
PROCEDURE: , Circumcision.,PRE-PROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS: , Normal male phallus.,POST-PROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS: , Normal male phallus.,ANESTHESIA:  ,1% lidocaine without epinephrine.,INDICATIONS: , The risks and benefits of the procedure were discussed with the parents.  The risks are infection, hemorrhage, and meatal stenosis.  The benefits are ease of care and cleanliness and fewer urinary tract infections.  The parents understand this and have signed a permit.,FINDINGS: , The infant is without evidence of hypospadias or chordee prior to the procedure.,TECHNIQUE:  ,The infant was given a dorsal penile block with 1% lidocaine without epinephrine using a tuberculin syringe and 0.5 cc of lidocaine was delivered subcutaneously at 10:30 and at 1:30 o'clock at the dorsal base of the penis.,The infant was prepped then with Betadine and draped with a sterile towel in the usual manner.  Clamps were placed at 10 o'clock and 2 o'clock and the adhesions between the glans and mucosa were instrumentally lysed.  Dorsal hemostasis was established and a dorsal slit was made.  The foreskin was fully retracted and remaining adhesions between the glans and mucosa were manually lysed.  The infant was fitted with a XX-cm Plastibell.  The foreskin was retracted around the Plastibell and circumferential hemostasis was established.  The excess foreskin was removed with scissors and the infant tolerated the procedure well with a minimum amount of blood loss.  Instructions for continuing care are to watch for any evidence of hemorrhage or urination and the parents are instructed in the care of the circumcised penis.
INTERPRETATION: , MRI of the cervical spine without contrast showed normal vertebral body height and alignment with normal cervical cord signal.  At C4-C5, there were minimal uncovertebral osteophytes with mild associated right foraminal compromise.  At C5-C6, there were minimal diffuse disc bulge and uncovertebral osteophytes with indentation of the anterior thecal sac, but no cord deformity or foraminal compromise.  At C6-C7, there was a central disc herniation resulting in mild deformity of the anterior aspect of the cord with patent neuroforamina.  MRI of the thoracic spine showed normal vertebral body height and alignment.  There was evidence of disc generation, especially anteriorly at the T5-T6 level.  There was no significant central canal or foraminal compromise.  Thoracic cord normal in signal morphology.  MRI of the lumbar spine showed normal vertebral body height and alignment.  There is disc desiccation at L4-L5 and L5-S1 with no significant central canal or foraminal stenosis at L1-L2, L2-L3, and L3-L4.  There was a right paracentral disc protrusion at L4-L5 narrowing of the right lateral recess.  The transversing nerve root on the right was impinged at that level.  The right foramen was mildly compromised.  There was also a central disc protrusion seen at the L5-S1 level resulting in indentation of the anterior thecal sac and minimal bilateral foraminal compromise.,IMPRESSION: , Overall impression was mild degenerative changes present in the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine without high-grade central canal or foraminal narrowing.  There was narrowing of the right lateral recess at L4-L5 level and associated impingement of the transversing nerve root at that level by a disc protrusion.  This was also seen on a prior study.,
INDICATION FOR OPERATION:,  Right coronal synostosis with left frontal compensatory bossing causing plagiocephaly.,PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Syndromic craniosynostosis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Syndromic craniosynostosis.,TITLE OF OPERATION: , Anterior cranial vault reconstruction with fronto-orbital bar advancement.,SPECIMENS: , None.,DRAINS: , One subgaleal drain exiting from the left posterior aspect of wound.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:,  After satisfactory general endotracheal tube anesthesia was started, the patient was placed on the operating table in supine position with the head held on a horseshoe-shaped headrest and the head was prepped and draped down the routine manner.  Here, the proposed scalp incision was infiltrated with 1% Xylocaine and then a zigzag scalp incision was made from one ear to the other ear, posterior to the coronal suture.  Scalp incision was reflected anteriorly and then the periosteum was taken off of the bone and then the temporalis muscles were reflected anterolaterally until the anterior cranial vault was exposed and then the periorbital rim, nasion and orbital part of the zygomatic arch were all dissected out as well as the pterion.  Using a craniotome, several bur holes were made; two on the either side of the midline posteriorly and then two posterolaterally.  The two posterior bur holes were then connected with a punch over the superior sagittal sinus and then the craniotome was used to fashion a flap first on the left and then on the right, going paramedian along the superior sagittal sinus in the midline and then curving over the fronto-orbital bar.  We then dissected superior sagittal sinus off of the inner table of the right bundle flap and then connected the right bundle flap going across the pterion on the right, which was abnormal.  The pterion on the right was then run short down after removing both bone flaps and then the dura was dissected off from the orbital roofs.  On the right, the orbital roof was jagged and abnormal and we had to repair a CSF leak from where the dura was punctured by the orbital roof.  The orbital rim was then dissected out and then using the saw and chisels, we were able to make the releasing cuts to free up the orbital rims, zygomatic arch and then remove the orbital bar going posteriorly and then the distal bar was split in the middle and then reapproximated with a bone graft in the middle to move the orbits out a little bit and the orbital bar was held together using absorbable plate.  It was then replaced and advanced and then relaxing, barrel-staving incisions were made in the bone flaps and the orbital rim and it was held on the right side with an absorbable plate to fix it in the proper position.  The bone flaps were then reapproximated using absorbable plates and screws, as well as #2-0 Vicryl to secure back into place.  Some of the places were also secured in the midline posteriorly, as well as off to the right where the bony defects were in place.  The periosteum was then brought over the skull and fastened in place and the temporalis muscles were tacked up to the periosteum.  The wounds were irrigated out.  A drain was left in posteriorly and then the wounds were closed in a routine manner using Vicryl for the galea and fast-absorbing gut for the skin followed by sterile dressings.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and did receive blood transfusions.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Basal cell carcinoma, nasal tip, previous positive biopsy.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Basal cell carcinoma, nasal tip, previous positive biopsy.,OPERATION PERFORMED: , Excision of nasal tip basal carcinoma.  Total area of excision, approximately 1 cm to 12 mm frozen section x2, final margins clear.,INDICATION: , A 66-year-old female for excision of nasal basal cell carcinoma.  This area is to be excised accordingly and closed.  We had multiple discussions regarding types of closure.,SUMMARY: , The patient was brought to the OR in satisfactory condition and placed supine on the OR table.  Underwent general anesthesia along with Marcaine in the nasal tip areas for planned excision.  The area was injected, after sterile prep and drape, with Marcaine 0.25% with 1:200,000 adrenaline.,The specimen was sent to pathology.  Margins were still positive at the inferior 6 o'clock ***** margin and this was resubmitted accordingly.  Final margins were clear.,Closure consisted of undermining circumferentially.  Advancement closure with dog ear removal distally and proximally was accomplished without difficulty.  Closure with interrupted 5-0 Monocryl running 7-0 nylon followed by Xeroform gauze, light pressure dressing, and Steri-Strips.,The patient is discharged on minocycline and Darvocet-N 100.,NOTE:,  The 2.6 mm loupe magnification was utilized throughout the procedure.  No complications noted with excellent and all clear margins at the termination.  An advancement closure technique was utilized.
There is normal and symmetrical filling of the caliceal system.  Subsequent films demonstrate that the kidneys are of normal size and contour bilaterally.  The caliceal system and ureters are in their usual position and show no signs of obstruction or intraluminal defects. The postvoid films demonstrate normal emptying of the collecting system, including the urinary bladder.,IMPRESSION:,  Negative intravenous urogram.,
REASON FOR VISIT:,  Postoperative visit for craniopharyngioma.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:,  Briefly, a 16-year-old right-handed boy who is in eleventh grade, who presents with some blurred vision and visual acuity difficulties, was found to have a suprasellar tumor.  He was brought to the operating room on 01/04/07, underwent a transsphenoidal resection of tumor.  Histology returned as craniopharyngioma.  There is some residual disease; however, the visual apparatus was decompressed.  According to him, he is doing well, back at school without any difficulties.  He has some occasional headaches and tinnitus, but his vision is much improved.,MEDICATIONS: , Synthroid 100 mcg per day.,FINDINGS: , On exam, he is awake, alert and oriented x 3.  Pupils are equal and reactive.  EOMs are full.  His visual acuity is 20/25 in the right (improved from 20/200) and the left is 20/200 improved from 20/400.  He has a bitemporal hemianopsia, which is significantly improved and wider.  His motor is 5 out of 5.  There are no focal motor or sensory deficits.  The abdominal incision is well healed.  There is no evidence of erythema or collection.  The lumbar drain was also well healed.,The postoperative MRI demonstrates small residual disease.,Histology returned as craniopharyngioma.,ASSESSMENT: , Postoperative visit for craniopharyngioma with residual disease.,PLANS: , I have recommended that he call.  I discussed the options with our radiation oncologist, Dr. X. They will schedule the appointment to see him.  In addition, he probably will need an MRI prior to any treatment, to follow the residual disease.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Cervical lymphadenopathy.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Cervical lymphadenopathy.,PROCEDURE: , Excisional biopsy of right cervical lymph node.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal anesthesia.,SPECIMEN: , Right cervical lymph node.,EBL: , 10 cc.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,FINDINGS:,  Enlarged level 2 lymph node was identified and removed and sent for pathologic examination.,FLUIDS: , Please see anesthesia report.,URINE OUTPUT: , None recorded during the case.,INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: , This is a 43-year-old female with a several-year history of persistent cervical lymphadenopathy.  She reports that it is painful to palpation on the right and has had multiple CT scans as well as an FNA which were all nondiagnostic.  After risks and benefits of surgery were discussed with the patient, an informed consent was obtained.  She was scheduled for an excisional biopsy of the right cervical lymph node.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was taken to the operating room and placed in the supine position.  She was anesthetized with general endotracheal anesthesia.  The neck was then prepped and draped in the sterile fashion.  Again, noted on palpation there was an enlarged level 2 cervical lymph node.,A 3-cm horizontal incision was made over this lymph node.  Dissection was carried down until the sternocleidomastoid muscle was identified.  The enlarged lymph node that measured approximately 2 cm in diameter was identified and was removed and sent to Pathology for touch prep evaluation.  The area was then explored for any other enlarged lymph nodes.  None were identified, and hemostasis was achieved with electrocautery.  A quarter-inch Penrose drain was placed in the wound.,The wound was then irrigated and closed with 3-0 interrupted Vicryl sutures for a deep closure followed by a running 4-0 Prolene subcuticular suture.  Mastisol and Steri-Strip were placed over the incision, and sterile bandage was applied.  The patient tolerated this procedure well and was extubated without complications and transported to the recovery room in stable condition.  She will return to the office tomorrow in followup to have the Penrose drain removed.
HISTORY: , The patient is a 61-year-old male patient.  I was asked to evaluate this patient because of the elevated blood urea and creatinine.  The patient has ascites, pleural effusion, hematuria, history of coronary artery disease, pulmonary nodules, history of congestive heart failure status post AICD.  The patient has a history of exposure to asbestos in the past, history of diabetes mellitus of 15 years duration, hypertension, and peripheral vascular disease.  The patient came in with a history of abdominal distention of about one to two months with bruises on the right flank about two days status post fall.  The patient has been having increasing distention of the abdomen and frequent nosebleeds.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  As above.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: , The patient had a pacemaker placed.,ALLERGIES: , NKDA.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , Showed no history of fever, no chills, no weight loss.  No history of sore throat.  No history of any ascites.  No history of nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.  No black stools.  No history of any rash.  No back pain.  No leg pain.  No neuropsychiatric problems.,FAMILY HISTORY: , History of hypertension, diabetes present.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  He is a nonsmoker, nonalcoholic, and not a drug user.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure is 124/66, heart rate around 68 per minute, and temperature 96.4.,HEENT:  The patient is atraumatic and normocephalic.  Pupils are equal and reactive to light.  Extraocular muscles are intact.,NECK:  Supple.  No JVD and no thyromegaly.,HEART:  S1 and S2 heard.  No murmurs or extra sounds.,ABDOMEN:  Distention of the abdomen present.,EXTREMITIES:  No pedal edema.,LABORATORY: , His lab investigation showed WBC of 6.2, H&H is 11 and 34.  PT, PTT, and INR is normal.  Urinalysis showed 2+ protein and 3+ blood, and 5 to 10 rbc's.  Potassium is 5.3, BUN of 39, and creatinine of 1.9.  Liver function test, ALT was 12, AST 15, albumin 3, TSH of 4.8, and T3 of 1.33.,IMPRESSION AND PLAN:  ,The patient is admitted with a diagnosis of acute on chronic renal insufficiency, rule out hepatorenal insufficiency could be secondary to congestive heart failure, cardiac cirrhosis, rule out possibility of ascites secondary to mesothelioma because the patient has got history of exposure to asbestos and has got pulmonary nodule, rule out diabetic nephropathy could be secondary to hypertensive nephrosclerosis.  The patient has hematuria could be secondary to benign prostatic hypertrophy, rule out malignancy.  We will do urine for cytology.  We will do a renal ultrasound, and 24-hour urine collection for protein/creatinine, creatinine clearance, immunofixation, serum electrophoresis, serum uric acid, serum iron, TIBC, and serum ferritin levels.  We will send a PSA level and if needed may be a urology consult.
PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,1.  Left heart catheterization.,2.  Bilateral selective coronary angiography.,3.  Saphenous vein graft angiography.,4.  Left internal mammary artery angiography.,5.  Left ventriculography.,INDICATIONS: , Persistent chest pain on maximum medical therapy with known history of coronary artery disease, status post coronary artery bypass grafting in year 2000.,PROCEDURE: , After the risks, benefits, and alternatives of the above-mentioned procedure were explained to the patient in detail, an informed consent was obtained both verbally and in writing.  The patient was taken to the Cardiac Catheterization Suite where the right femoral region was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.  1% lidocaine solution was then used to infiltrate the skin overlying the right femoral artery.  Once adequate anesthesia had been obtained, a thin-walled #18 gauge Argon needle was used to cannulate the right femoral artery.  A steel guidewire was then inserted through the needle into the vascular lumen without resistance.  A small nick was then made in the skin and its pressure was held.  The needle was removed over the guidewire.  A #6 French sheath was then advanced over the guidewire into the vascular lumen without resistance.  The guidewire and dilator were then removed.  The sheath was then flushed.  Next, angulated pigtail catheter was advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of the guidewire.  The catheter was then advanced into the left ventricle.  The guidewire was then removed.  The catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed.  LVEDP was then measured and found to be favorable for a left ventriculogram.  The left ventriculogram was performed in the RAO position with a single power injection of non-ionic contrast material.  LVEDP was then remeasured.  Pullback was then performed, which failed to reveal an LVAO gradient.  The catheter was then removed.  Next, a Judkins left #4 catheter was advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire.  The guidewire was removed.  The catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed.  Using hand injections of non-ionic contrast material, the left coronary system was evaluated in several different views.  Once adequate study has been performed, the catheter was removed.  Next, a Judkins right #4 catheter was then advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire.  The guidewire was removed.  The catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed.  The ostium of the saphenous vein graft was engaged using hand injections of non-ionic contrast material.  The saphenous vein graft was visualized in several different views.  The Judkins right catheter was then advanced and the native coronary artery was engaged using hand injections of non-ionic contrast material.  Right coronary system was evaluated in several different views.  Once adequate study has been performed, the catheter was retracted.  We were unable to engage the left subclavian artery thus the catheter was removed over an exchange wire.  Next, a multipurpose catheter was advanced over the exchange wire.  The wire was then easily passed into the left subclavian artery.  The multipurpose catheter was then removed.  LIMA catheter was then exchanged over the wire into the left subclavian artery.  The guidewire was removed and the catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed.  LIMA graft was then engaged using hand injections of non-ionic contrast material.  The LIMA graft was evaluated in several different views.  Once adequate study has been performed, the LIMA catheter was retracted under fluoroscopic guidance.  The sheath was flushed for the final time.  The patient was returned to the cardiac catheterization holding area in stable and satisfactory condition.,FINDINGS:,LEFT VENTRICULOGRAM: , There is no evidence of any wall motion abnormalities with an estimated ejection fraction of 60%.  Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was 24 mmHg preinjection and 26 mmHg postinjection.  There is no mitral regurgitation.  There is no LVAO or pullback.,LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY: , The left main is a moderate caliber vessel, which bifurcates into the left anterior descending and circumflex arteries.  There is no evidence of any hemodynamically significant stenosis.,LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING ARTERY: , The LAD is a small caliber vessel, which traverses through the intraventricular groove and wraps around the apex of the heart.  There are luminal irregularities from the mid to distal portion.  There is noted to be antegrade flow in the LIMA to LAD graft.  There are very small diagonal branches, which are diffusely diseased.,CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY: , The circumflex is a small caliber vessel, which traverses through the atrioventricular groove.  There are minor luminal irregularities throughout.  There are very small obtuse marginal branches, which are diffusely diseased.,RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY:,  The RCA is a small vessel with luminal irregularities throughout.  The RCA is the dominant coronary artery.,Left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending artery failed to demonstrate any hemodynamically significant stenosis.  Saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal branches is a Y-graft, which bifurcates to the first obtuse marginal and the obtuse marginal branch.  The saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal branches is widely patent without any evidence of hemodynamically significant disease.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Diffusely diseased native vessels.,2.  Saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal branch is widely patent.,3.  Left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending artery is patent.,4.  Normal left ventricular function with ejection fraction of 60%.,5.  Mildly elevated left-sided filling pressures.,PLAN:,1.  The patient is to continue on her current medical regimen, which includes beta-blocker, aspirin, statin, and Plavix.  The patient is unable to tolerate a long-acting nitrate, thus this will be discontinued.,2.  We will add Norvasc 5 mg daily as well as hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg daily.,3.  Risk factor modification was discussed with the patient including diet control as well as tobacco cessation.,4.  The patient will need to be monitored closely for close lipid control as well as blood pressure control.
SOCIAL HISTORY, FAMILY HISTORY, AND PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:, Reviewed.  There are no changes, otherwise.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Fatigue, pain, difficulty with sleep, mood fluctuations, low stamina, mild urgency frequency and hesitancy, preponderance of lack of stamina, preponderance of pain particularly in the left shoulder.,EXAMINATION: , The patient is alert and oriented.  Extraocular movements are full.  The face is symmetric.  The uvula is midline.  Speech has normal prosody.  Today there is much less guarding of the left shoulder.  In the lower extremities, iliopsoas, quadriceps, femoris and tibialis anterior are full.  The gait is narrow based and noncircumductive.  Rapid alternating movements are slightly off bilaterally.  The gait does not have significant slapping characteristics.  Sensory examination is largely unremarkable.  Heart, lungs, and abdomen are within normal limits.,IMPRESSION: , Mr. ABC is doing about the same.  We discussed the issue of adherence to Copaxone.  In order to facilitate this, I would like him to take Copaxone every other day, but on a regular rhythm.  His wife continues to inject him.  He has not been able to start himself on the injections.,Greater than 50% of this 40-minute appointment was devoted to counseling.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  ,1.  Recurrent intractable low back and left lower extremity pain with history of L4-L5 discectomy.,2.  Epidural fibrosis with nerve root entrapment.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,  ,1.  Recurrent intractable low back and left lower extremity pain with history of L4-L5 discectomy.,2.  Epidural fibrosis with nerve root entrapment.,OPERATION PERFORMED:,  Left L4-L5 transforaminal neuroplasty with nerve root decompression and lysis of adhesions followed by epidural steroid injection.,ANESTHESIA:,  Local/IV sedation.,COMPLICATIONS:,  None.,SUMMARY:  ,The patient in the operating room, status post transforaminal epidurogram (see operative note for further details).  Using AP and lateral fluoroscopic views to confirm the needle location the superior most being in the left L4 neural foramen and the inferior most in the left L5 neural foramen, 375 units of Wydase was injected through each needle.  After two minutes, 3.5 cc of 0.5% Marcaine and 80 mg of Depo-Medrol was injected through each needle.  These needles were removed and the patient was discharged in stable condition.
OPERATION: , Left lower lobectomy.,OPERATIVE PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was brought to the operating room and placed in the supine position.  After general endotracheal anesthesia was induced, the appropriate monitoring devices were placed.  The patient was placed in the right lateral decubitus position.  The left chest and back were prepped and draped in a sterile fashion.  A right lateral thoracotomy incision was made.  Subcutaneous flaps were raised.  The anterior border of the latissimus dorsi was freed up, and the muscle was retracted posteriorly.  The posterior border of the pectoralis was freed up and it was retracted anteriorly.  The 5th intercostal space was entered.,The inferior pulmonary ligament was then taken down with electrocautery.  The major fissure was then taken down and arteries identified.  The artery was dissected free and it was divided with an Endo GIA stapler.  The vein was then dissected free and divided with an Endo GIA stapler.  The bronchus was then cleaned of all nodal tissue.  A TA-30 green loaded stapler was then placed across this, fired, and main bronchus divided distal to the stapler.,Then the lobe was removed and sent to pathology where margins were found to be free of tumor.  Level 9, level 13, level 11, and level 6 nodes were taken for permanent cell specimen.  Hemostasis noted.  Posterior 28-French and anterior 24-French chest tubes were placed.,The wounds were closed with #2 Vicryl.  A subcutaneous drain was placed.  Subcutaneous tissue was closed with running 3-0 Dexon, skin with running 4-0 Dexon subcuticular stitch.
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Tonsillitis.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  ,Tonsillitis.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:  ,Tonsillectomy.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:  ,The patient was taken to the operating room and prepped and draped in the usual fashion.  After induction of general endotracheal anesthesia, the McIvor mouth gag was placed in the oral cavity and a tongue depressor applied.  Two #12-French red rubber Robinson catheters were placed, 1 in each nasal passage, and brought out through the oral cavity and clamped over a dental gauze roll on the upper lip to provide soft palate retraction.  The nasopharynx was inspected with the laryngeal mirror.,Attention was then directed to the right tonsil.  The anterior tonsillar pillar was infiltrated with 1.5 cc of 1% Xylocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine, as was the left tonsillar pillar.  The right tonsil was grasped with the tenaculum and retracted out of its fossa.  The anterior tonsillar pillar was incised with the #12 knife blade.  The plica semilunaris was incised with the Metzenbaum scissors.  Using the Metzenbaum scissors and the Fisher knife, the tonsil was dissected free of its fossa onto an inferior pedicle around which the tonsillar snare was placed and applied.  The tonsil was removed from the fossa and the fossa packed with a cherry gauze sponge as previously described.  By a similar procedure, the opposite tonsillectomy was performed and the fossa was packed.,Attention was re-directed to the right tonsil.  The pack was removed and bleeding was controlled with the suction Bovie unit.  Bleeding was then similarly controlled in the left tonsillar fossa and the nasopharynx after removal of the packs.  The catheters were then removed.  The nasal passages and oropharynx were suctioned free of debris.  The procedure was terminated.,The patient tolerated the procedure well and left the operating room in good condition.
